Title: Further Develop Medical Work Under the Leadership of the Party
Author: Shen Kefei, Zhu Xianyi, Ke Lin, Zhang Yan, Wang Shuzhen, Wu Yingkai, Yu Aifeng, Zhu Futang, Shi Zengrong, He Bihui, Xu Zuoxia, Huang Jiasi, Liu Chengzhao, Lin Qiaozhi, Liang Boqiang, Zhang Yangfen (Joint Speech)
Date: 1957-07-10
Page: 5

We fully agree with Premier Zhou's Government Work Report and other work reports. Through these reports, we have a clearer understanding of the great achievements in China's socialist transformation and socialist construction, which makes us more confident in moving towards socialism.

We are engaged in medical education and medical scientific research. In April and May of this year, some of us inspected the education, medical treatment, and scientific research work of six medical colleges in Guangzhou, Nanchang, Hangzhou, Shanghai, Shenyang, and Dalian. We also learned about the local medical and preventive work. Through this inspection and combined with our own work experience, we deeply feel that since liberation, China's higher medical education has developed greatly. The number of students enrolled has reached more than 45,900, which is four times that before liberation. The teaching staff has expanded to more than 6,800, which is three times that before liberation. The number of graduates has reached more than 34,500, equivalent to 3.6 times the total in the twenty years before liberation. New medical colleges have been established in Xinjiang and Inner Mongolia and other places to train health cadres for ethnic minorities. Medical education has not only developed in quantity but also changed in quality. Through various political movements and the practical education of socialist construction, the ideological awareness of teachers and students in medical colleges has been greatly improved. They have made it clear that our medical education must cultivate cadres for socialist construction. In recent years, a large number of graduates have been scattered throughout the country to serve workers, peasants, and soldiers. These achievements have been obtained under the leadership of the Party and the efforts of all teachers and students. Some people believe that there have been no achievements in medical education in the past few years, saying that the teaching reform has been ruined, learning from the Soviet Union was wrong, and the quality of students has declined. Some even arrogantly shouted "The Party cannot lead higher education," "The Party cannot lead science," "Laymen cannot lead experts," etc. This is completely inconsistent with the facts and is a malicious slander against the Party and socialism by right-wing elements who want to pull our medical education back to the capitalist road. This is a struggle between two lines in higher education, and all of us higher education workers should be vigilant and give the right-wing elements a powerful counterattack. We believe that the achievements of learning from the Soviet Union and carrying out teaching reforms in recent years are great, major, and fundamental. Judging from these achievements, we believe that the Party is not only capable of leading higher medical education, but only under the leadership of the Party can we transform the medical education with strong colonial colors in the past into a socialist type of medical education in just a few years. Of course, this is a very arduous and great change. Due to lack of experience, there are shortcomings and errors in our work. There are still some urgent problems to be solved in various medical colleges. If these problems can be solved as soon as possible, the medical colleges can play a greater role. Now, we will focus on the following three aspects:

  I. Problems in Medical Teaching

    Before liberation, China's medical education did not have a unified school system or clear training objectives. The number of graduates each year was very small, and they were all concentrated in big cities to serve a few people. After liberation, based on ideological transformation and learning from the Soviet Union, the departments were adjusted, the school system was determined, a unified national teaching plan and syllabus were formulated, more than 300 teachers were organized to compile textbooks, and teaching methods were improved. This series of teaching reform work has enabled us to train a large number of medical and health cadres to serve workers, peasants, and soldiers in a short period of time. However, in recent years, we have felt that the changes in the school system and teaching plan have been too frequent and not steady enough, causing chaos in the work of various medical colleges. The length of study is short, but the number of courses is large, which puts a heavy burden on students and makes it difficult for them to develop independent thinking. In the allocation ratio of various courses, the number of hours for basic science is too small, and the time for production practice is too short, which affects the improvement of quality. Generally, not enough attention is paid to the political and ideological education of teachers and students. Since the principle of "all-round development and teaching students in accordance with their aptitude" was emphasized last year, there has been a tendency of lax discipline and neglect of politics among students, and the bourgeois individualism among teachers has risen somewhat. In the issue of learning from the Soviet Union, some dogmatism has been committed, and the situation of our country in terms of teachers, equipment, and other conditions has not been well taken into account. In the development of colleges, the needs have been taken care of, but the possibilities have not been well considered. Although the number of teachers and equipment has increased greatly compared with that before liberation, each college still feels that it is not enough, which affects the faster improvement and development of teaching and research work.

    Based on the above situation, we suggest:

      (1) In order to further improve the quality of teaching, in medical colleges and universities, we should vigorously strengthen political and ideological education, improve the level of Marxism-Leninism of all teachers and students, so as to give full play to the enthusiasm of teachers and students in teaching and learning. For this reason, we must strengthen the Party's leadership in schools and better implement the Party's policy towards intellectuals. We oppose the fallacies of those who have ulterior motives, such as "professors running schools" and "democratic school management," which oppose the Party's leadership in colleges and universities.

      (2) Learning from the Soviet Union is still the direction for improving medical education in the future. It is a shortcoming in our work to learn from the Soviet Union without well integrating it with China's reality. However, it is wrong for some people to attempt to completely deny the superiority of the Soviet education system and the advancement of Soviet medical science because of this. It is recommended that we continue to learn from the Soviet Union seriously in the future, consolidate the advanced experience we have already obtained, change the parts that are not applicable to our country, and carry forward our country's original good experience. At the same time, we should also absorb the experience of other countries that is beneficial to our country's construction.

    (3) In order to reduce the burden on students and improve the quality of teaching, it is recommended to extend the school system of medical colleges to six years; but there must be sufficient preparation, which can be implemented first in schools with good conditions, and should not be changed for a long period of time in the future. After the six-year system is changed, the main thing is to increase the time for basic science and basic medicine, and extend the production practice to one year. Before the system is changed, each college should be allowed to appropriately modify the current teaching plan and extend the production practice time under the principle of meeting the overall training objectives.

      (4) The teachers and equipment of each medical college are uneven. In the future, more attention should be paid to enriching medical colleges with poor conditions. A few better medical colleges can be selected to reduce the enrollment task and serve as a base for teacher training and further study. At the same time, we can also adopt the method of "linking up" between brother colleges and brother teaching and research groups to establish close ties and help each other. The medical colleges and scientific research institutions should also be fully coordinated to facilitate the development of teaching and scientific research work.

  II. Problems in Medical Treatment and Prevention

    After liberation, the Party put forward the health policy of prevention first and carried out a mass patriotic health campaign in our country. In recent years, the face of our country's health cause has undergone great changes. Smallpox, cholera, and plague have been basically eliminated, and the mortality rate of measles and diphtheria has been significantly reduced. Anti-epidemic stations, women and children health care stations, and various prevention institutions have been established in various cities one after another, and the work of dividing areas for medical treatment and community health care has begun. However, due to the busy medical work, some prevention and treatment institutions are busy with medical treatment and abandon prevention, and some health administrative authorities have not paid enough attention to the establishment and management of infectious disease hospitals, and the spirit of prevention first has not been implemented enough in the management of certain epidemics. Medical education work has also made the mistake of neglecting prevention. Few teachers lead students to seriously do the preventive work needed by the people in mines, factories, rural areas, or health care areas. Therefore, some medical students do not pay attention to courses such as hygiene and health care organizations in school, and are unwilling to do preventive health care work after graduation.

    The affiliated hospitals of medical colleges have a dual task, both medical work and teaching work. Therefore, the work of doctors is very busy. In recent years, a series of reforms have been carried out to improve the system, improve technology, and basically establish the viewpoint and working style of serving all the wounded and sick, and complete this dual task. However, due to the heavy task, there are problems such as insufficient medical staff, insufficient teaching beds, and unbalanced financial revenue and expenditure. Some patients and their families do not adequately estimate the improvement of ideological understanding of medical staff in recent years, do not trust medical staff enough, do not respect their labor enough, and some even beat and scold doctors and insult nurses. This not only affects the mood of medical staff, but also hinders the normal progress of work. For nursing work, in recent years, nurses have no system or opportunity for further study and improvement, and the nursing department in the hospital has been cancelled. Nursing work is led by doctors, and many nurses feel that there is no future. Although the health administrative department has given instructions on this issue, it is not specific enough and has not solved the problem. Recently, the Ministry of Health announced the relaxation of restrictions on induced abortion, requiring more women to undergo this surgery, while the number of people visiting contraception clinics has decreased. This not only does not conform to the principle of prevention first, but also cannot achieve the purpose of contraception, because many people become pregnant again shortly after surgery. Moreover, induced abortion has certain risks and does affect women's health. All localities have reported that this measure is not appropriate enough.

    In view of the above situation, we suggest:

    (1) In the allocation of health funds in the future, attention should be paid to prevention and health care, which is effective and cost-saving, which not only implements the principle of prevention first, but also conforms to the policy of building the country with diligence and thrift. Preventive health care personnel should be valued and given sufficient encouragement, and given the opportunity to study further on schedule. Medical students and doctors at all levels must be given education on prevention first, so that they all have the opportunity to do community health care work for a period of time. Teachers in medical colleges who are responsible for health care work must use local health care institutions as teaching bases.

      (2) The affiliated hospitals of medical colleges have heavy tasks and should appropriately supplement medical staff, and the beds of the affiliated hospitals should be increased for some medical colleges. At the same time, the local health authorities should give strong assistance to the medical colleges, so that those in the local hospitals who have teaching ability can participate in teaching, and the hospitals with good conditions can be used as cooperative teaching hospitals, and the hospitals can be mobilized to transfer cases suitable for teaching to medical colleges or cooperative teaching hospitals, and avoid giving too much medical work to these hospitals.

      (3) The method of solving the hospital's funding problem is to improve the system of poverty and illness reduction and exemption, so that those who really need treatment but cannot afford it can get reduction and exemption. On the other hand, we should strengthen various measures to increase production and save money in the hospital, and avoid waste. Some labor insurance and public medical patients require unnecessary injections and medicines, and even refuse to be discharged after recovery. The standard of enjoying public medical treatment should be strictly enforced and part of the cost should be charged as appropriate to reduce waste.

      (4) The boundaries of medical accidents should be clarified. Bad work attitudes and medical accidents that should not have occurred should continue to be exposed and criticized, but it will hinder the enthusiasm of medical staff to call the events that have done everything possible but failed to save under the existing conditions as medical accidents and criticize them. The responsibility of public opinion should be: on the one hand, to expose medical accidents that should not have occurred, to help medical staff improve their understanding and improve their work; on the other hand, it should also publicize the good people and good deeds in medical work, so that patients and medical staff respect and love each other. Leaders at all levels should also support the correct suggestions and measures of medical staff, so that they can dare to take responsibility and better complete the medical task.

      (5) Nursing work is an indispensable and important part of medical work. The society should give the nursing staff the due status and the due authority in the work. And establish a nurse training system to enable continuous improvement of technology.

      (6) Induced abortion should be regarded as an unavoidable surgery after the failure of contraception methods. In order to protect the health of women, and in order to smoothly promote contraception, medical staff and pregnant women should treat the issue of induced abortion with a serious attitude. We hope that people from all walks of life will give strong support to this view.

  III. Problems in Scientific Research

    In the past, China's medical scientific research was very scattered, and only a few people were engaged in it. After liberation, the Academy of Military Medical Sciences of the Chinese People's Liberation Army, the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, and several research institutes were established successively. Scientific research work was also carried out in various medical colleges, so that there was a greater force to engage in scientific research work. A national medical science research leadership organization was also established, so that everyone can carry out research work in a planned and led manner. The teachers are very enthusiastic about research work, and most of them have participated in this work. Last year, under the leadership of the Scientific Planning Commission of the State Council, a scientific long-term plan for the development of the national economy was formulated, and five important scientific research tasks were stipulated in medicine, which made the medical research work have a clear direction. Recently, the Scientific Planning Commission convened a meeting to discuss the scientific system and put forward various specific plans to solve the conditions for scientific research. The implementation of these plans will surely further advance scientific research work. Now, medical colleges and medical scientific research institutions across the country are focusing on the research on the prevention and treatment of major parasitic diseases, infectious diseases, and other major diseases in our country, and are conducting research in various aspects such as traditional Chinese medicine, Chinese medicine, chemical drugs, and antibiotics around these diseases. In cooperation with the development of industry and agriculture, some research work has also been done to improve the living environment, production environment hygiene, and improve the health of the working people, and initial results have been achieved. China's medical science is still backward, but because there is a plan and the strength is concentrated, it has solved some scientific problems that need to be solved in practical work, and has also carried out new work such as heart surgery. Some people say that science has not developed in our country since liberation, and some people say that science has regressed in our country. It is not catching up with the international level in twelve years, but making up lessons in twelve years. What absurd remarks! But it cannot be denied that due to China's poor scientific foundation in the past, busy teaching tasks, and insufficient research equipment, the work has not been carried out fast enough and the results have not been great enough; especially in clinical medicine, due to the heavy medical work, the teaching time is not enough, and there is less time to carry out research work. On the other hand, some teachers do not have enough understanding of giving play to the collective strength in scientific research, and there is not enough communication and mutual assistance in the use of scientific instruments between teaching and research groups. We suggest that in the future, we should strengthen the ideological and organizational leadership in medical science, and strengthen cooperation and coordination in accordance with the spirit of running science with diligence and thrift, unite all forces, and strive to catch up with the international level as soon as possible.

    In addition, during the inspection, many units reported that medical and nursing technicians should have a vacation system, and interns should have a living allowance for internships. We have put forward these two issues as proposals; everyone has a lot of opinions on the graduate distribution work. We have made suggestions to the Standing Committee in the inspection report, so we will not report it at the conference.

    Dear representatives: The three aspects of the problems mentioned above are some shortcomings and errors in the development of medical work. The existence of these problems is partly due to the fact that the health leadership departments do not go deep into the grassroots level and do not understand the situation enough, nor do they widely solicit and pay enough attention to the opinions of many teachers and experts, so that the handling of many issues is not appropriate enough. Some are due to the fact that our medical education and medical scientific research workers' ideological understanding lags behind objective development, and there is a phenomenon of disunity and lack of cooperation and mutual respect, so that the strength has not been better brought into play. We hope to overcome the three isms, improve our understanding, strengthen unity, and correct these shortcomings and errors through this rectification and the struggle against right-wing elements. We also ask all representatives to supervise and inspect the work in health, especially in medical education, so that we can better train medical and health cadres and improve the people's health faster.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 在党的领导下进一步发展医学工作

1957-07-10
第5版()
专栏：

    在党的领导下进一步发展医学工作
    沈克非、朱宪彝、柯　麟、张　岩、王淑贞、吴英恺、俞霭峰、诸福棠、石增荣、
    何碧辉、徐佐夏、黄家驷、刘承钊、林巧稚、梁伯强、章央芬的联合发言
      我们完全同意周总理的政府工作报告和其他各项工作报告。通过这些报告，我们更清楚地认识到我国社会主义改造和社会主义建设上的伟大成就，使我们更有信心地向社会主义迈进。
      我们是从事医学教育和医学科学研究工作的。今年四、五月间，我们中一部分人在广州、南昌、杭州、上海、沈阳和大连视察了六个医学院的教育、医疗和科学研究工作，也了解了一些当地的医疗预防工作的情况。通过这次视察和结合着自己的工作体会，我们深深地感到解放以来，我国高等医学教育事业有了很大的发展，在校学生已达四万五千九百余人，相当于解放前的四倍。教师队伍扩大到六千八百余人，为解放前的三倍。毕业生达三万四千五百余人，相等于解放前二十年总和的三点六倍。在新疆和内蒙等地建立了新的医学院，为少数民族培养卫生干部。医学教育不仅有量的发展，也有了质的改变。经过历次政治运动和社会主义建设的实际教育，医学院的师生们在思想觉悟方面有了很大的提高，明确了我们的医学教育必须是为社会主义建设培养干部的，几年来，大批的毕业生散布到全国各地为工农兵服务。这些成绩是在党的领导和全体师生的努力下获得的。有人认为这几年的医学教育事业没有成绩，说是教学改革改坏了，学习苏联学错了，学生的质量降低了，还有人狂妄的喊叫“党不能领导高等教育”、“党不能领导科学”、“外行不能领导内行”等等，这是完全和事实不符合的，是右派分子反党、反社会主义的恶意中伤，想把我们的医学教育事业拉回到资本主义老路上去。这是两条路线在高等教育工作中的斗争问题，我们全体高教工作者应该提高警惕，并给右派分子以有力的反击。我们认为几年来学习苏联进行教学改革的成绩是很大的、是主要的、是基本的。从这些成绩看来，我们认为党不仅是能够领导高等医学教育，而且只有党的领导，才能使我们在几年中把过去带有浓厚殖民地色彩的医学教育转变成为社会主义类型的医学教育。当然这是一种非常艰巨伟大的变革，由于缺乏经验，我们工作中是有缺点和错误的，各医学院中，还存在着若干亟待解决的问题，如果这些问题能尽快解决，各医学院就可以发挥更大的作用，现在着重谈下面三方面的问题。
  一、医学教学工作方面的问题
    解放前我国医学教育没有统一的学制，也没有明确的培养目标，每年毕业生很少，他们又都集中在大城市为少数人服务。解放后，在思想改造和学习苏联的基础上，调整了院系，确定了学制，制订了全国统一的教学计划和教学大纲，组织了三百多位教师编写了教科书，改进了教学方法，这一系列的教学改革工作使我们能在短短几年内培养出大批医药卫生干部为工农兵服务。但是几年来，我们感到学制和教学计划的改变过于频繁了些，不够稳步前进，造成各医学院中工作忙乱。修业年限短，而课程门数多，造成学生负担重，难以发挥独立思考。在各门课程的分配比例上，基础科学时数太少，生产实习时间太短，影响了质量的提高。对师生的政治思想教育一般都做得不够，自从去年着重提出“全面发展，因材施教”的方针后，在学生中出现了纪律松懈和忽视政治的倾向，在教师中资产阶级的个人主义思想有些抬头。在学习苏联问题上，犯了一些教条主义，没有很好地照顾到我国在师资、设备和其他条件上的情况。在学院发展上，照顾了需要，而没有很好考虑到可能。在师资和设备方面，虽然比解放前有了很大的增加，但各院还感不够，影响了教学和研究工作更快地提高和开展。
    基于上述情况，我们建议：
      （一）为了进一步提高教学质量，在医药学院中，应大力加强政治思想教育，提高全体师生的马列主义水平，以便充分发挥教师和学生的教和学的积极性。为此必须加强学校中党的领导，更好地贯彻党对知识分子的政策。我们反对那些别有用心的人，说什么“教授治校”、“民主办学”等等的反对党在高等学校中的领导的谬论。
      （二）学习苏联仍然是今后改进医学教育工作的方向。学习苏联，而不很好结合中国实际，是我们工作中的缺点，但有人企图因此而全盘否定苏联教育制度的优越性和苏联医学科学的先进性是错误的，建议今后我们应继续认真学习苏联，并把已获得的先进经验予以巩固，对于不适用于我国的部分予以改变，对于我国原有的良好经验应予以发扬。同时也应吸收其他各国有利于我国建设事业的经验。
    （三）为了减轻学生负担，并提高教学质量，建议将医学院学制延长为六年；但须有充分准备，可先在有条件的学校实行，并应在今后较长时期内不再作变动。改六年制后，主要是增加基础科学和基础医学的时间，并将生产实习延长为一年。在未改制前，应允许各院在符合总的培养目标的原则下，适当地修改现行教学计划，并延长生产实习时间。
      （四）各医学院的师资和仪器设备是不平衡的，今后应更多地注意充实条件较差的医学院。可选择少数较好的医学院减轻招生任务，作为师资培养和进修的基地。同时也可采取兄弟学院间和兄弟教研组间“挂钩”的办法，密切联系，互相协助。医学院和科学研究机构间也应充分协调，以利于教学和科学研究工作的开展。
    二、医疗预防方面的问题
    解放以后，党就提出了预防为主的卫生方针，并在我国开展了群众性的爱国卫生运动。几年来已使我国卫生事业的面貌有了很大的改变。天花、霍乱、鼠疫都已基本上消灭，麻疹、白喉死亡率显著降低。各城市先后建立了防疫站、妇女儿童保健站和各种预防机构，并开始推行了划区医疗和地段保健工作。但由于医疗工作忙，有些防治机构忙于医疗而放弃了预防，有些卫生行政当局对于传染病医院的设置和管理还未予以足够的重视，对某些流行病的管理上，预防为主的精神贯彻得不够。医学教育工作中也犯了轻视预防的毛病，很少有教师带领学生认真下矿厂、农村或保健地段做人民所需要的预防工作，因此有部分医学生在校不重视卫生学保健组织等课程，毕业后，也不愿意做预防保健工作。
    医学院附属医院负有双重任务，既有医疗工作，又有教学工作。因此医生的工作十分繁忙。几年来，进行了一系列的改革，改善了制度，提高了技术，基本上树立了一切为伤病员服务的观点和工作作风，完成了这种双重任务。但由于任务重，就产生了医务人员不足，教学床位不够，经费收支不平衡等现象。有些病人和病人家属对几年来医务人员思想认识提高的估计不足，对医护人员不够信任，对于他们的劳动不够尊重，甚至有的还打骂医生，侮辱护士。这既影响了医护人员的情绪，也妨碍了工作的正常进行。对于护理工作，几年来，护士没有进修和提高的制度和机会，又取消了医院中的护理部，护理工作由医生领导，很多护士觉得没有前途。卫生行政部门对这问题虽已作了指示，但不够具体，没有解决问题。最近卫生部公布放宽人工流产限制，要求做这手术的妇女增多，而避孕门诊人数减少。这既不符合预防为主的方针，又不能达到节育的目的，因为手术后不久而又怀孕的不在少数。而且人工流产有一定的危险性，对妇女的健康不是没有影响的，各地反映这一措施不够恰当。
    针对以上情况，我们建议：
    （一）今后在卫生经费的分配上，应重视预防保健方面，这类事业是收效大而经费省，既是贯彻预防为主的原则，又符合勤俭建国的方针。对于预防保健人员，应予以重视，并给予足够的鼓励，给按期进修的机会。对于医学生和各级医生必须给予预防为主的教育，使他们都有机会做一个时期的地段保健工作。在医学院负责卫生保健工作的教师，必须利用地方的保健机构作为教学基地。
      （二）医学院附属医院任务繁重应适当地补充医护人员，对有些医学院还应增加附属医院的病床。同时卫生地方当局应予医学院大力协助，使地方医院中有教学能力的参加教学，把条件好的医院作为合作教学医院，发动医院把适合于教学的病例转给医学院或合作教学医院，并避免将过多的医疗工作给这些医院。
      （三）解决医院经费的办法，一方面应改进贫病减免制度，使确需治疗而无力负担的能得到减免，另一方面应加强医院中增产节约的各项措施，避免浪费，有的劳保和公费医疗病人要求不必要的打针吃药，甚至病愈不肯出院，应严格享受公费的标准并酌收部分费用，以减少浪费。
      （四）对于医疗事故应明确界限，不良的工作态度和不应有的医疗事故应继续揭露和批评，但对在现有的条件下，已尽了一切努力而未能挽救的事件，称为医疗事故而加以指摘，是会妨碍医务人员的积极性的。舆论界的责任应该是：一方面揭露不应有的医疗事故，帮助医务人员提高认识，改进工作；另方面也应宣扬医务工作中的好人好事，使病人和医务人员互敬互爱。各级领导对于医务人员的正确建议和正确措施，也应予以支持，这才能使他们勇于负责，更好地完成医疗任务。
      （五）护理工作是医疗工作中不可缺少的一个重要部分。对护理人员，社会上应给予应有的地位，工作上应给予应有的职权。并确定护士进修制度，使能不断地提高技术。
      （六）人工流产应看作是采用避孕方法失败后不得已的手术。为了保护妇女的健康，为了使避孕工作顺利推行，医务人员和孕妇们都应以严肃的态度来对待人工流产问题。我们希望各界人士对这一观点予以有力的支持。
  三、科学研究工作方面的问题
    我国医学科学研究工作在过去是很分散的，也只有少数人员在进行。解放后，先后成立了人民解放军军事医学科学院，中国医学科学院和若干研究所，在各医学院中也开展了科学研究工作，这样就有了较大力量来从事于科学研究工作。还成立了全国性的医学科学研究领导机构，使大家能有计划、有领导地进行研究工作。教师们对于研究工作的热情是很高的，大部分都参加了这一工作。去年在国务院科学规划委员会领导下，制定了发展国民经济的科学远景规划，在医学方面规定了五项重要科学研究任务，更使医学研究工作有了明确的方向。最近科学规划委员会又召开了会议，讨论了科学体制，并提出了解决科学研究条件的各项具体方案。这些方案的实施必定会进一步使科学研究工作向前推进。现在全国医学院和医学科学研究机构都在比较集中地进行有关我国主要寄生虫病、传染病以及其他主要疾病的防治工作的研究，并环绕这些疾病进行中医、中药、化学药物、抗生素等各方面的研究。配合工农业的发展，也做了些改善生活环境、生产环境卫生和提高劳动人民健康方面的研究工作，并已取得初步的成绩。我国的医学科学还是落后的，但由于有了计划，并集中了力量，已经解决了一些实际工作中需要解决的科学问题，也开展了像心脏手术之类的新的工作。有人说我国解放以来科学没有发展，还有人说我国科学倒退了，不是十二年赶上国际水平，而是十二年补课，这是何等荒谬的言论！但不能否认，由于我国过去的科学基础差，教学任务忙，研究设备不够，因此工作开展不够快，成绩也不够大；特别是在临床医学方面，由于医疗工作繁重，教学时间还嫌不够，更少有时间开展研究工作。在另一方面，有些教师在科学研究上发挥集体力量认识不足，教研组间科学仪器使用上互通有无做得不够。我们建议今后应加强医学科学方面的思想领导和组织领导，并根据勤俭办科学的精神，加强合作和协调，团结一切力量，为尽快地赶上国际水平而努力。
    此外，在视察中，许多单位反映医护技术人员应有休假制度，实习医生应有实习生活补助费，我们已把这两个问题作为提案提出；大家对毕业生分配工作也有不少意见，我们已在视察报告中向常委会提出了建议，就不在大会上报告了。
    各位代表：以上所谈的三方面的问题是医学工作发展中的一些缺点和错误。这些问题的存在，有的是由于卫生领导部门不深入下层，了解情况不够，也没有广泛征求和足够重视许多教师和专家的意见，以致在许多问题的处理上不够恰当。有的是由于我们医学教育和医学科学研究工作者思想认识落后于客观发展，并存在着不团结合作、彼此不够尊重的现象，以致没有更好地发挥力量。我们希望通过这次整风和反右派分子的斗争，克服三个主义，提高认识，加强团结，纠正这些缺点和错误。我们也要求各位代表督促检查卫生方面、特别是医学教育方面的工作，使我们能更好地培养医药卫生干部，能更快地提高人民健康水平。
