Title: Thought Examination: Long Yun's Speech
Author:
Date: 1957-07-14
Page: 3

Thought Examination
Long Yun's Speech

(I)

Recently, at a meeting of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, I raised erroneous opinions during the discussion of the state's final accounts and budget drafts. I felt afterward that something was wrong. At the time, I thought that as a member of the Standing Committee of the NPC, it was permissible to offer suggestions to the Party and the government at the meeting, and even if there were errors, it wouldn't matter much since the Standing Committee was a working meeting. Later, I realized that I shouldn't speak casually at such an important meeting. The next day, the Standing Committee continued its meeting, but I asked for leave of absence. Later, at the symposium of the Central Committee of the Revolutionary Committee of the Chinese Kuomintang (RCCK), Comrade Wang Kunlun conveyed the criticism of my erroneous speech at the Standing Committee meeting. Chairman Li and the comrades offered kind exposure and criticism of my fallacies. Subsequently, at the Yunnan group meeting of the NPC, the representatives criticized me. I then better understood that my speech had caused serious errors, with negative impact on Sino-Soviet friendship and unity, socialist construction, and the leadership of the Party. Therefore, I felt very uneasy and mentally tormented. After a period of time, I repeatedly examined my own errors and realized that my class origin had blinded my vision. Coupled with insufficient learning, I had an unclear understanding of many issues, and my views were vague, making it difficult to maintain a firm stance. Now, to the best of my understanding, I will focus on the main issues of the comrades' assistance and conduct in-depth examination.

Before criticizing my serious errors, I would like to briefly discuss the root causes of my ideological vagueness and unstable stance. From an ideological standpoint, my dominant thought is the feudal landlord class ideology, mixed with bourgeois democratic and liberal ideas. I grew up in a feudal landlord family of a minority nationality, receiving education in feudal morality and ethics on the one hand, and suffering from national discrimination and oppression on the other. At the end of the Qing Dynasty and the beginning of the Republic of China, I joined the military, and was further infused with military-nationalist education. At the same time, the bourgeois democratic ideas of the Xinhai Revolution also had a great influence on me. Thus, from the narrow concept of so-called "loyalty to the emperor and love for the country," I developed the idea of "enriching the country and strengthening the army." During the Kuomintang reactionary rule, I presided over the military and political affairs of a province for more than ten years, exploiting and oppressing the people of Yunnan, which created a feudal bureaucratic and warlord style of self-importance and arrogance. During the Anti-Japanese War, Chiang Kai-shek, under the guise of resisting Japan, practiced dictatorship, excluded dissidents, and fawned on foreign powers. That was why I opposed him and hated him. At that time, progressive people moved inland, and democratic forces gathered in Kunming. Everyone hated dictatorship and longed for democracy and freedom, which was very much in line with my subjective wishes. In order to survive and adapt to the trend, I approached China's democratic forces—the Communist Party of China—hoping to overthrow Chiang Kai-shek's reactionary rule and establish an independent, democratic, and free country, but this was also based on personal interests. After the victory of the Anti-Japanese War, Chiang Kai-shek, in order to prepare for the civil war, colluded with American imperialism and used conspiracies to transfer me away from Yunnan to Chongqing. At this time, Chiang Kai-shek wanted to monopolize the fruits of victory and was arrogant and tyrannical, thus arousing the anger of the people across the country. Under the pressure of public opinion, the Old Political Consultative Conference was convened, but the ink was barely dry before he tore it up and destroyed it, which made me indignant, hated him even more, and opposed him even more, and wanted to do my best to dismantle Chiang Kai-shek's platform. But in this state of mind, I only thought that the Communist Party was a huge force in the country opposing Chiang at that time, so I further leaned closer to the Communist Party to oppose Chiang Kai-shek. But opposing Chiang is not equal to revolution. From today's perspective, there is a difference in principle, which is a matter of stance.

After the founding of the People's Republic of China, my acceptance of the leadership of the Communist Party was a good start, but it did not take root in my ideological consciousness, because accepting the leadership of the Party should not remain on the level of lip service, but should be well implemented in action. In the past eight years, due to the Communist Party of China's understanding, recognition and generous treatment of me, I have become relaxed and complacent in my thinking. In the past series of social reforms and movements, I did not actively strive to go to the actual class struggle to get exercise. My study of political theory and current affairs policies has also been insufficient, so the ideas brought by the old society have not been properly transformed, and are almost intact. I have not yet established socialist ideological feelings, nor have I established hatred for capitalism (including American imperialism). Therefore, I cannot distinguish between the enemy and ourselves, and my love and hatred are unclear, so I cannot talk about a correct class stand. Therefore, in my participation in the political work of New China and in my daily words and deeds, I often proceed from the old-fashioned ideological consciousness, and sometimes I have some resistance and distance to all the measures of the Party and the state, speak casually, and lose my stand.

The above is what I have unearthed from the source of my errors in thinking. Due to the limitations of class nature and the ideological roots traced above, I only look at phenomena and not at essence in everything new. I only start from the current interests, without long-term plans. I only observe problems from a one-sided and partial perspective, without recognizing the whole. In short, I regard feelings as policies, rumors as facts, and substitute ears for eyes. Therefore, a series of erroneous remarks have been made over the years. For example: During the rent reduction and deposit refund, I actually hoped that "deposits should be refunded if there are deposits, and deposits should not be refunded if there are no deposits." I supported land reform, but I hoped for peaceful land reform, without the use of struggle, and my thinking was sympathetic to the landlord class and the old bureaucrats. During the "Three-Anti and Five-Anti" and "Suppression of Counter-Revolutionaries" movements, I also thought that they were excessive and wronged some "innocent" people. I thought that agricultural cooperation was very good, but I felt that the development of advanced cooperatives was too rapid and too fierce, which made farmers' lives difficult. And recently, in the early stage of helping the Party to rectify its work style, I also said that "the past few movements were all about the Communist Party rectifying people," and "the opinions put forward by democratic people to the Party have not been tightened step by step, but relaxed step by step"... My erroneous remarks on these movements have played a role that is unfavorable to the people, and I have neglected the achievements and exaggerated the shortcomings. Without investigation and research, I made irresponsible remarks. I neither understood the policies of the socialist revolution, nor was I educated by these movements. This time, after the comrades' analysis and criticism, I have indeed benefited greatly.

(II)

My speech at the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress this time, which committed serious errors, fully exposed the essence of my feudal and bourgeois exploitative thoughts, and prominently demonstrated my violation of the state's one-sided diplomatic policy and the spirit of internationalism stipulated in the Constitution. No matter what my subjective wishes were—whether it was from narrow "patriotism" or from considering the difficult financial situation of the country—this absurd remark, in its objective effect, caused "the provocation of Sino-Soviet friendship, the destruction of international unity, and thus the destruction of our socialist construction." It is not conducive to socialist international unity. And it is what those close to us lament and those who hate us rejoice. Therefore, I am very grateful to all the comrades for their kind help, so that I can further understand these major issues.

1. "It is unreasonable for China to bear all the expenses of the War to Resist U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea" – First of all, I made a mistake in the wording of the nature of this war. Resisting U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea was to defend our homeland. The U.S. imperialism followed the old path of Japan's invasion of China and fought to the Yalu River. In order to defend the fruits of the victory of the revolution and to obtain a peaceful environment to build the motherland, we had to fight back. Therefore, Resisting U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea was also a just war by the socialist camp against the aggression of the imperialist camp, but first of all, it was our own defense of our homeland, and it was not equal to opening a joint-stock company with the Soviet Union. How can we, for our own affairs, haggle over every penny and ask our friends to bear the expenses? This is precisely revealing the essence of my exploitative class. What's more, the great victory of Resisting U.S. Aggression and Aid Korea, although it was the result of the efforts of the people across the country under the correct leadership of the Party, without the vigorous assistance of the Soviet Union in equipping our army, navy, and air force, and guarding Lushun and Dalian for us, plus the might of the Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship, Alliance and Mutual Assistance to deter us, how could we have won the war? Not only did I not sincerely thank this internationalist and great friendship, but I repaid kindness with ingratitude, which is indeed intolerable.

2. "In the first and second world wars, the United States lent money to the Allied countries and implemented the Lend-Lease Act. Later, some of them defaulted on their debts, and some the United States did not want to be repaid. The Soviet Union loaned money to our country, which had to be repaid within ten years, and interest had to be paid for the short time. It is recommended to postpone the repayment for twenty or thirty years in order to ease the domestic economic tension. China is fighting for socialism, and the result is like this." – Comparing the U.S. imperialism's Lend-Lease Act that made a fortune in the two world wars with the Soviet Union's loans to our country, and equating the two, this is really not distinguishing between the enemy and ourselves, and has no people's stand at all. No matter from which angle the question is raised, if we don't distinguish between the enemy and ourselves first, we will inevitably confuse right and wrong. Although I myself thought that this kind of distinction without right and wrong was "patriotic," people would ask: What country do you love!? Although I wanted to suggest that we ask the Soviet Union to agree to postpone the repayment of our loans in order to ease the country's economic tension, in fact, it is equivalent to saying "the Soviet Union is not as generous as the United States," which means that the line between the enemy and ourselves is not clearly drawn from the United States. Moreover, I also complained that "China is fighting for socialism, and the result is like this?" It cannot but cause people to ask: If we don't fight for socialism, do we have to fight for capitalism? Of course, it is very clear that this is not a matter of language rhetoric, but a matter of point of view and position. Because my point of view is vague, and I have no position to quote "historical facts" to explain, and I have not drawn a clear line between the enemy and ourselves, the result is very obviously giving people a strong impression – not leaning to the Soviet Union, but anti-Soviet, not hating the United States, but admiring the United States, and there is no talk of any internationalist atmosphere. Not only did it not promote the unity of Sino-Soviet friendship, but it played a destructive role. After everyone pointed it out, and recalled my visit to the Soviet Union, the Soviet friends' great and profound friendship to me, I was indeed ashamed. I did not have any love for socialist countries or love for the Soviet Union's ideological feelings, which was truly a profound lesson for me.

3. "When the Soviet Union liberated Northeast China, it dismantled some machines from the factories, was there a price? Will it be repaid?" – The way this question is raised fully exposes the exploitative class's thinking of "calculating old debts." No matter how good people are, as long as one thing is not satisfactory, they will put on a face and not talk about friendship. Moreover, this statement was precisely what the Chiang Kai-shek group used in 1945 as an "anti-Soviet, anti-communist excuse," but I used it indiscriminately without any principles, which cannot but make people question: Who are you speaking for? What's more, the Soviet Union's removal of the machines at that time was truly a great help to the people, so that Chiang Kai-shek could not use them to fight against us. I could not distinguish this potential role that had an infinite potential role for the victory of the Chinese revolution. At the same time, since the founding of the country, the Soviet Union has helped us design and supply equipment for 156 construction projects, and has helped us build the great Yangtze River Bridge and many important railways, which are all inseparable from the selfless assistance of the Soviet Union and the hard work of the experts. But I only "saw the trees, but not the forest," what a short-sightedness! And I openly quoted the past reactionary "anti-Soviet and anti-communist" excuse to "calculate old debts" with the Soviet Union. Asking myself, I have no place to put myself. Especially recently, when I saw that the U.S.-Chiang used my fallacy to provoke Sino-Soviet relations, this clearly shows what the enemy loves? What do the people hate? It also shows how my own emphasis on motivation is? What is the effect? This is really a reactionary position. Therefore, the comrades said that I "this is simply too unconscionable!" I think it is a serious condemnation.

4. "Our country's foreign aid budget is too large, and we advocate tightening up and compressing foreign aid," which shows that I have neither a long-term vision nor a magnificent spirit. I can only do small things and manage small things, tightly holding and meticulously managing, and measuring income to determine expenditure. I did not clearly know that although our country's finances are difficult, our foreign aid funds are used to strengthen the unity of socialist countries and world peace forces according to our own capabilities. I did not realize that our aid to our neighbors is equivalent to strengthening our own national defense, and helping these countries is equivalent to preventing the U.S. imperialism from establishing military bases, and supporting Asian and African countries is to support world peace. I did not realize that firmly opposing the U.S. imperialism is a sharp struggle between the enemy and ourselves. And I only imagined from my own small world in the past, and did not further realize that this is the cause of communism to liberate all mankind, and it is also the magnificent blueprint of the international united front of "striving for people's democracy and striving for lasting peace." After the comrades' analysis and criticism, I did have a sense of being a "frog at the bottom of a well."

From the re-understanding of the above four main issues, I deeply realize that: although I thought that my motivation for speaking at the beginning was narrow patriotism, the actual objective effect was anti-Soviet, anti-socialist, anti-Party, and anti-people. This serious consequence is intolerable.

(III)

I talked about the issue of ethnic minorities at both the symposium of democratic people in the United Front Work Department of the CPC on May 30 and the Yunnan group meeting of the NPC this time. Many of my remarks on this issue are very wrong.

1. Regarding the issue of "ethnic minorities have not been so complicated since ancient times, and everyone has the same ancestor," after the comrades' criticism and help, I realized that there are indeed principled errors and absurdities.

I based this fallacy on the saying in the "Book of Han" that "Eastern Yi, Western Rong, Southern Man, and Northern Di," and added my own conjecture: "Perhaps they are of the same clan, but named differently due to different regions." I did not realize that the "Book of Han" is the "daily record" of the feudal emperors, and it is the "song of praise" of Han chauvinism. I also have no scientific knowledge of the origin, evolution, and development of ethnic groups, and I arbitrarily said that ethnic minorities are "one ancestor" by "not learning from the ancients." Although I later said that "experts have identified that there are two or thirty kinds in Yunnan, which is close to the facts," it also means "the same clan, named differently due to different regions." And I also said that "from an administrative point of view, it is not good to divide too much, which increases the difficulty of work and arrangement." This statement obviously denies the independent existence of ethnic minorities today and their right to autonomy, and has the effect of destroying national unity. At the same time, it also copied the tone of Han chauvinism and spread the poison of "assimilating" ethnic minorities. Talking about my "national concept" is: "where you are is where you are." When I was in Kunming, I was a "Kunming ethnic group," and today in Beijing, I am a "Beijing ethnic group." This is simply confusing the meaning of ethnic group and origin completely. Not only does it violate the ethnic policy stipulated in the Constitution, but it also has no ethnic minority stand. This is extremely erroneous.

2. Regarding the issue of ethnic minority cadres, someone said: "Ethnic minority autonomy, Han cadres are in charge." This remark contains provocation. Therefore, at the symposium of the United Front Work Department, I suggested: "We should train more ethnic minority cadres and give them opportunities to exercise so that they have the ability to do administrative work and manage affairs, so that Han cadres can gradually reduce, and ethnic minority cadres can gradually increase, and they can indeed take responsibility and truly be in charge." Because I heard it secondhand, my words were not accurate, which made people feel that: I wanted to make ethnic minorities break away from the leadership of the Communist Party, be in charge themselves, and negate the Party's leading position in implementing ethnic policies; and negate the principle of advanced ethnic groups leading backward ethnic groups.

Secondly, I saw that the national budget has a large expenditure on construction and living subsidies in ethnic minority autonomous regions. Therefore, I wanted to encourage the people of the Yunnan Autonomous Region to "work hard to increase production, achieve self-sufficiency, reduce the long-term burden of the state, and be self-reliant." Therefore, it has formed a complete disregard for the Party's concern and care for ethnic minorities and the outstanding achievements it has made. I am responsible for the above errors.

I am a Yi ethnic group, and historically I have been discriminated against and oppressed. By the time I became a feudal ruler of a province, I forgot my roots and changed my nature. Not only did I not have any concern and care for ethnic minorities, but I rode on the heads of ethnic minorities, exploited and oppressed them, and condoned my relatives and subordinates to engage in corruption, extortion, and persecution. There is no talk of giving ethnic minorities the right to autonomy. I am very sorry to the people of Yunnan and the ethnic minorities of Yunnan!

After liberation, although I participated in government work, I did not study the Party's ethnic policy in depth. And I have not returned to Yunnan for many years, and I do not know enough about the development of ethnic minority areas. Based on a little local nationalism, I listened to partial information, and was ignorant, so that there were errors in my thoughts and remarks, resulting in the consequences of opposing the Party's leadership, negating the right to ethnic autonomy, and destroying domestic ethnic unity. This makes me extremely ashamed and hateful!

I should study the Party's ethnic policy well in the future and thoroughly correct my erroneous thoughts.

(IV)

Recalling that I lived in Hong Kong before liberation, and my contribution to the revolution was minimal. But at the beginning of the founding of the country, the People's Political Consultative Conference elected me as a member of the Central People's Government, which is really grateful beyond words. In 1950, I was invited to Beijing. From the perspective of political treatment, I was valued and treated generously by the Party. For example: the people of Yunnan originally hated me to the bone, but under the persuasion and understanding of the Party, they elected me as a representative of the National People's Congress, and also elected me as a member of the Standing Committee and Vice Chairman of the National Defense Committee; our RCCK organization elected me as Vice Chairman. This feeling of gratitude cannot be described in words. Speaking of life, I often say: Today's life is the most satisfactory period of my life. This is the Party's meticulous care for me. But in the past eight years, I have been pampered and have not studied well, and have not received the transformation I deserve, which has failed the Party and the people's love for me; and because I am older, I have not seriously considered that my words and deeds may inspire the future and affect the country and the people. Because I am in a high position and divorced from reality, and I have high blood pressure, I am easily impulsive. I think of something and say it, and I say it like this in person and behind my back. Therefore, I have exaggerated and made mistakes again and again. After this profound education, I am both ashamed and ashamed! To tell you the truth, I am so grateful to the Party that I don't have time, so how can I oppose it? Do I still fantasize about restoration, let the U.S. imperialism enslave the Chinese people, and let Chiang Kai-shek use the means of treating "traitors" to deal with me? Just speaking of the great achievements of the country's various constructions in the past eight years, the facts are there for all to see. With our country being vast and populous and difficult to govern, in the past few years, we have been promoting benefits and eliminating drawbacks, and we have done so much in various undertakings, which is unprecedented in history. This proves the superiority of the socialist system. As for the shortcomings and errors on the road of progress, they are unavoidable, but the Party and the government are correcting errors and improving their work at any time, and overcoming them with a hundred times the confidence and strength. However, in the face of new things, I always like to be picky, believing in shortcomings, and even worrying about things that have not happened, which is very wrong.

To say that the Soviet Union is our great ally, if we do not rely on the Soviet Union, we will only be isolated and helpless. She and we share weal and woe and have the same interests. The strength of the Soviet Union's economic and military power is a powerful guarantee for the socialist camp's anti-aggression and world peace, which I saw with my own eyes. Last year, I visited the Soviet Union and various fraternal countries with the NPC delegation. I received a warm reception in the Soviet Union. The leaders of the country had cordial conversations and showed unparalleled concern for me. I felt very warm, like a family reunion. In public and private, our friendship is precious and palpable, and there should be no more anti-Soviet thoughts and emotions. But my speech had the opposite effect, which is very painful for me!

Now, in the socialist construction and transformation of our country, what is placed before us is the struggle between the two lines. After this anti-rightist struggle, I began to realize that this is a question of who will win in the political and ideological front. The leading position of the Communist Party of China is affirmed in the Constitution; the road of socialism is the unwavering road of the people of the whole country; the socialist international unity headed by the Soviet Union is the unwavering foreign policy of our country; uniting the various ethnic groups in the country into a free and equal big family is stipulated in the Constitution. These principles must be implemented. In the past eight years, I have been in an environment that promotes historical progress and great changes. I should have made progress, but because I have not studied enough, my thinking is far behind the objective reality. The country has entered socialism, but my thinking has not entered socialism. After this kind exposure and criticism from all sides, I have received a great education, and I deeply regret my past mistakes! In the future, I will firmly stand on the people's stand, work hard to study Marxism-Leninism theory, transform myself, and resolve to throw away the burden of old ideas and old styles. I will sincerely follow the leadership of the Communist Party of China and Chairman Mao forever, resolutely take the socialist road, and resolutely lean to the Soviet Union! Re-behave myself according to the six political criteria instructed by Chairman Mao.

My political level is not high, and my understanding is not enough. I have not examined my errors deeply and meticulously enough. Please give me your guidance!

Finally, with my current political status, I have made serious mistakes in several speeches, which have had an adverse impact on international unity, the socialist cause, and the interests of the people. Thinking at midnight, I am filled with shame and regret! In addition to making a review to the organization and the Yunnan group of the NPC, I request the Party and the government to give me the due punishment.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 思想检讨  龙云的发言

1957-07-14
第3版()
专栏：

    思想检讨
    龙云的发言
    （一）
    我最近在人大常务委员会的一次会议上，为讨论国家决算、预算草案时，曾经提出了谬误的意见，会后自己就感觉不对，我当时以为自己是人大常委，在会上向党和政府建议是可以的，并且常委会是工作会议，即或有错误也无大碍，后来才想到，在这样重要的会议上，不应该随便说话。接着第二天常委会继续开会，我请假没有出席，等到在民革中央小组的座谈会上，王昆仑同志把在常委会批评我的错误发言传达了以后，李主席和各位同志对我的谬论，提出了善意的揭发和批评，其后又在人大云南小组会上，各位代表对我进行了批评，我才更了解自己的发言是犯了严重的错误，对中苏友谊团结，社会主义的建设，党的领导都有坏的影响。因此，情绪非常不安，精神十分痛苦，经过了一段时间，反复的检查了我自己的错误，才明白是由于我的阶级出身，蒙蔽着自己的眼界，加之学习不够，对很多问题认识不清，观点模糊，立场就不易站稳了。现在尽就自己的觉悟程度，将同志们对我帮助的主要问题，着重的进行深入检查。
    我在没有批判我的严重错误之前，我想略为谈一谈自己的思想模糊和立场不稳的根源。从思想本质说，我的主导思想是封建地主阶级的思想，又掺杂了资产阶级民主自由的思想，我生长于少数民族的封建地主家庭，一方面受到封建道德和伦理的教育，另一方面受到民族歧视和压迫，清末民初，投身军伍，又渗入了军国民思想教育，同时，辛亥革命的资产阶级民主思想，也给了我很多的影响，于是由狭隘的所谓“忠君爱国”的观念，发展成为“富国强兵”的思想。又在国民党反动派统治时期，主持一省军政，剥削压迫云南人民达十余年，就造成了唯我独尊、自高自大的封建官僚和军阀作风。抗日时期，蒋介石假抗日之名，行独裁之实，排斥异己，媚外求荣，我才反对他，仇恨他；这时，进步人士内迁，民主力量汇集昆明，大家都痛恨独裁，渴望民主自由，这是十分符合我的主观愿望的。我为自存与适应潮流，所以才接近中国的民主力量——中国共产党，希望能够打倒蒋介石的反动统治，建立一个独立、民主、自由的国家，但这也是从个人利益出发的。抗日胜利后，蒋介石为了准备内战，即勾结美帝以阴谋毒计把我调离云南，到了重庆，这时，蒋介石想独吞胜利果实，专横暴戾，因此激起全国人民的愤怒，在舆论压迫下，召开旧政协，但墨迹未干，又为其撕毁破坏，使我义愤填膺，更仇恨他，更反对他，并想竭尽棉薄，如何来拆蒋介石的台。但这时的心境，我只认为共产党是当时国内反蒋的巨大力量，所以我才更进一步靠拢共产党，反对蒋介石，但反蒋并不等于革命，从今天来看，这是有原则性差别的，也就是立场的问题。
    中华人民共和国成立后，我接受了共产党的领导，本是一个良好的开端，但我在思想意识上却没有生根，因为接受党的领导，不应当停留在口头上，而是要很好的贯彻到行动中去。八年来，由于中国共产党对我的知遇与优渥，在思想上使我反而松懈和自满了，在以往一系列的社会改革和运动中，我没有主动争取去到实际的阶级斗争中求得锻炼，对政治理论和时事政策的学习也不够，所以由旧社会带来的思想，没有得到应有的改造，几乎原封不动，并对社会主义的思想感情还未建立，对资本主义（包括美帝）的仇恨亦未建立，因此敌我不分，爱憎不明，也就谈不到正确的阶级立场。因此，我在参加新中国的政治工作上及平日言语行动中，都经常从老一套的思想意识出发，有时对党和国家的一切措施，多少有些抵触和距离，随便讲话，丧失立场。
    以上就是我从思想上发掘错误产生的根源。由于阶级本质的局限性和以上所追查的思想根源，对一切新事物，只看现象，不看本质，只从目前利益出发，没有长远打算，只从片面、局部来观察问题，没有认识整体。总之，以感想当政策，传闻当事实，以耳代目，因此，数年来产生一连串的错误言论。例如：在减租退押时，我竟希望“有押退押，无押不该要。”土地改革我是拥护的，但我希望和平土改，不用斗争方式，思想上是对地主阶级和旧官僚同情的。“三反五反”“肃反”运动，我也认为搞得过火，冤枉了一些“无辜”的人。农业合作化，我认为很好，但我觉得发展高级社太急太猛，反使农民生活困难，以及最近在帮助党整风的初期，我还说“过去几个运动都是共产党整人”，“民主人士对党提意见，没有做到步步紧，而是步步松”……我对这些运动的错误言论，都起了不利于人民的作用，并忽视成绩，夸大缺点，不经调查研究，信口开河，既不了解社会主义革命的政策，又没有受到这些运动的教育，这次经过同志们的分析批判，确实使我受益很大。
    （二）
    关于这一次我在人大常委会上建议犯了严重错误的发言，充分暴露了我的封建的资产阶级的剥削思想本质，突出的表现了违反国家一边倒的外交政策，违反宪法所规定的国际主义精神。不论我主观的愿望怎样——是从狭隘的“爱国主义”出发也好，或是从考虑国家财政困难的情况提出也好，但这种荒谬言论在客观效果上，引起了“挑拨中苏友谊，破坏国际团结，从而破坏我国社会主义建设事业。”是不利于社会主义国际团结的。而且是为亲者所痛，仇者所快的。因此，我十分感谢同志们一切善意的帮助，使我对这些重大的问题，作进一步的认识。
    1．“抗美援朝战争经费，全部由中国负担不合理”——首先我对这个战争性质的提法就提错了，抗美援朝，是为了保家卫国。美帝循着日本侵略中国的老路，打到鸭绿江边，我们为了保卫革命胜利的成果，为了得到和平的环境建设祖国，是不能不予以反击的。因此，抗美援朝，也是社会主义阵营反对帝国主义阵营侵略的正义战争，但首先是我们自己保家卫国，而并不等于和苏联开合股公司。我们自己的事，怎能斤斤计较，要朋友来负担经费，这正是露出了我剥削阶级的本质，何况抗美援朝伟大胜利的取得，虽是全国人民在党的正确领导下努力的结果，若没有苏联大力的帮助我们装备陆、海、空军，替我们守住旅顺、大连，加之有了中苏友好同盟条约的威力镇慑，又怎能打胜战呢？我不但没有衷心的感谢这种国际主义的、伟大的友谊，而却以怨报德，这确是令人不能容忍的。
    2．“第一、二两次世界大战中，美国借款给盟国，又实施租借法案，后来他们有的赖了债，有的美国不要还了，苏联对我国借款，十年以内还清，时间过短还要付息。建议延期二、三十年归还，借以缓和国内经济紧张。中国为社会主义而战，结果如此。”——以美帝在两次世界大战中发横财的租借法案来对比苏联对我国的借款，又把两者等同起来，这实在是敌我不分，毫无人民立场了。不论从那一个角度上提问题，首先不分清敌我，必然要淆乱是非。这种没有是非界限的提法，虽然我自己以为是“爱国”的，而人们就要问：你爱的是什么国！？虽然我是想建议请求苏联同意我们延期归还借款，以缓和国家的经济紧张，实际就等于说“苏联不如美国大方”，这也就是没有和美帝划清敌我界限。而且，我还抱怨说“中国为社会主义而战，结果如此？”更不能不引起人们要问：不为社会主义而战，难道要为资本主义而战吗？当然，事情很清楚，这不是一个语言修词问题，而是一个观点立场问题，我因观点模糊，毫无立场的引用“历史事实”来说明，没有把敌我的界限划清，其结果就很明显的给人一种强烈的印象——不是向苏联一边倒，而是反苏，不是仇美，而是崇美，更谈不到有任何国际主义的气息了。不但没有促进中苏友好的团结，却起了破坏的作用，经大家指明，又回忆到我访苏的情况，苏联朋友对我伟大而深刻的友谊，确实惭愧万分，自己没有一点热爱社会主义国家、热爱苏联的思想感情，这对我真是一课深刻的教育。
      3．“苏联解放我国东北时，拆走了工厂中的一些机器，有无代价？偿还不偿还？”——这种问题的提法，充分暴露了剥削阶级“算倒账”的思想，不管人家千般好，只要一桩不如意，就板起面孔，不讲交情，而且这种说法，正是一九四五年蒋介石集团用来做“反苏、反共的口实”，而我竟毫无原则的滥用，不能不使人们质问：你是代谁讲话？何况那时苏联搬走机器，真是帮了人民的大忙，不留给蒋介石利用它来打我们，这种对中国革命胜利具有无穷的潜在作用，我竟不能鉴别。同时，建国以来，苏联帮助我们设计和供应设备的一百五十六项建设项目，并且帮助了我们建设了伟大的长江大桥及许多重要铁路，都是和苏联无私的援助与专家们的辛勤分不开的。而我竟自“只见树木，不见森林”，是何等近视！并且公然引用过去反动派“反苏反共”的口实，向苏联“算倒账”，扪心自问，无地自容，尤其最近看到美蒋竟利用我的谬论挑拨中苏感情，这清楚的说明了敌人爱的是什么？人民恨的是什么？也说明了我自己强调的动机是怎样？效果又是怎样了。这实在是一个反动立场。所以同志们说我“这简直是太没良心了！”我认为是严正的谴责。
    4．“我国援外预算太大，主张抓紧压缩对外的援助”，这说明了我既无远大的眼光，又无磅礴的气魄，只能小手小脚，小家小管，紧把细持，量入为出。没有清楚知道，我们国家经费虽有困难，但我们援外经费是根据自己的能力，用以加强社会主义国家及世界和平力量的团结。也没有意识到我们援助了邻邦，就等于加强了自己的国防，帮助这些国家，也就等于阻止了美帝建立军事基地，支援亚非国家，就是支持了世界和平，更没有意识到坚决反对美帝是尖锐的敌我斗争。而我只从自己过去的小天小地来设想，更没有进一步认识到这是共产主义解放全人类的事业，也是“争取人民民主，争取持久和平”的国际统一战线的宏业伟图，经过同志们的分析批判，使自己确有“井底蛙”之感。
    从以上四个主要问题的再认识，使我深刻了解到：虽然我当初在发言的动机上自以为是狭隘的爱国主义，实际的客观效果却是反苏、反社会主义、反党、反人民的。这种严重后果，是令人不能容忍的。
    （三）
    我五月三十日在中共统战部民主人士座谈会和此次人大云南小组会两个会上，都谈到了少数民族问题。我关于这个问题的许多谈话，是有很多错误的。
    1．关于“少数民族，自古以来没有那么复杂，大家都是一个祖先”的问题，经过同志们的批评和帮助，我才认识到，确实是有原则性的错误和荒谬的。
    这种谬论，我是根据“汉书”所记载的“东夷，西戎，南蛮，北狄”的说法，加以自己的推想：“也许是同系一族，因地异名”而来的。我毫未意识到“汉书”是封建帝王的“起居注”，是大汉族主义的“歌颂录”。又没有民族起源、演变和发展的科学知识，竟自“泥古不化”的武断说，少数民族是“一个祖先”。虽然后来又说“现经专家研究鉴定，云南有二、三十种，接近事实了”。但也意味着“同系一族，因地异名”。并且还说“从行政的观点来看，分多了不好，增加工作和安排的困难”。这种的说法，显然是否定了今天少数民族的独立存在和他们应享有的自治权利，并产生了破坏民族团结的作用。同时，还抄袭大汉族主义的口吻，散布了“同化”少数民族的毒素，谈到我的“民族概念”是：“到那里就是那里”，我在昆明时，就是“昆明族”，今天在北京，就是“北京族”。这简直是把民族与籍贯的涵义，都完全混同了。不仅违背宪法所规定的民族政策，连少数民族的立场都没有了。这是极端谬误的。
    2．关于民族干部问题，有人说：“少数民族自治，汉族干部当家”。这话，含有挑拨的意思。所以，我在统战部座谈会上建议：“多培养少数民族干部，给他们锻炼的机会，有行政工作和管理事务的本领，使汉族干部逐步减少，少数民族干部逐步增加，确实能负起责任，真正当家做主”。这番话，我因道听途说，词不达意，使人意味到：是要使少数民族脱离共产党的领导，自己当家作主，否定了党在贯彻民族政策上的领导地位；并否定了先进民族带动落后民族的原则。
    其次，我看到国家预算中对少数民族自治区域的建设及生活补助，支出很大。所以，我想鼓励云南自治区人民“自己要努力增加生产，达到自给自足，减少国家长久负担，自立更生”。因此，形成了完全忽视党对少数民族的关怀、照顾及所取得的卓越成就。上面这些错误，我是应负责的。
    我是彝族，历史上是受到歧视和压迫的。到了我就成为一省的封建统治者，因此，就忘本变质，不仅对少数民族没有一点关怀照顾，反而骑在少数民族头上，剥削压迫，放纵自己的亲族部属进行贪污、勒索和迫害。更谈不到给少数民族自治权利了。我是十分对不起云南人民和云南少数民族的！
    解放后，我虽参加了政府工作，但我对党的民族政策不深入学习。又多年不回云南，对少数民族地区的发展情况，了解不够，就凭着一点地方民族主义的思想感情出发，偏听偏信，一知半解，以致思想言论上发生谬误，产生反对党的领导、否定民族自治权利和破坏国内民族团结的后果。这是使我愧恨无极的！
    我今后应该好好的学习党的民族政策，彻底纠正我的错误思想。
    （四）
    回忆我在解放前，避居香港，对革命的贡献极微。但在开国之初，人民政协就选我为中央人民政府委员，真是感激无暨。一九五○年邀我来京，从政治待遇说，我受到党的重视和优待。例如：云南人民原是恨我入骨，但在党的说服和谅解下，选我为人大代表，又选我为常务委员、国防委员会副主席；我们民革组织选我为副主席。这种感激的心情实非言语可以形容。说到生活上，我常说：今天的生活，是我一辈子最满意的一个时期，这是党对我无微不至的照顾。但八年来，自己养尊处优，没有好好的学习，得到应有的改造，辜负了党和人民对自己的爱护；又以年事较高，更没有认真严肃的考虑到我的一言一行，可能启发来兹，对国家、人民会发生影响的。由于忝居高位，脱离实际，兼之血压过高，容易冲动，想到那里，说到那里，当面也是这样讲，背后也是这样说。因此，言过其实，一错再错。经过这次深刻的教育，使我既惭且愧！说良心话，我对党感激之不暇，怎么还会反对呢？难道我还幻想复辟，让美帝来奴役中国人民，让蒋介石用对待“叛徒”的手段来收拾我吗？就以八年来国家各项建设的巨大成就说，事实俱在，人所共见。以我国地广人多，不易治理，几年来，兴利除弊，百废并举，建树之多，史无前例。这就证明了社会主义制度的优越性。至于在前进道路上的缺点和错误，在所难免，但党和政府是随时在纠正错误，改进工作，且抱着百倍的信心和力量去克服的。可是，我在新事物的面前，总喜欢吹毛求疵，偏信缺点，甚至杞人忧天，这是很不对的。
    再说到苏联是我们伟大的盟邦，如果我们不依靠苏联，那只有孤立无助。她和我们是休戚与共、利害相同的。苏联的经济和军事力量的强大，是社会主义阵营反侵略和世界和平的有力保证，这是我亲眼看到的。去年我随人大代表团访问苏联和各兄弟国家，在苏联受到了热烈的招待，国家领袖人物对我亲切叙谈和无比的关怀，我感到十分温暖，有如家人团聚。于公于私，我们的友谊都是珍贵的、可感的，不应该还有半点反苏的思想和情绪。但我的发言中，却适得其反，这是我非常痛心的！
    现在我国在社会主义建设和改造中，摆在我们面前的，是两条路线的斗争。经过这次反右派的斗争，我开始认识到这是在政治思想战线上谁战胜谁的问题。中国共产党的领导地位，是宪法上肯定的；走社会主义的道路，是全国人民坚定不移的道路；以苏联为首的社会主义的国际团结，是我国坚定不移的外交方针；团结国内各民族成为一个自由平等的大家庭，是宪法规定的。这些原则，必须贯彻执行。八年来，我处在推动历史前进和巨变的环境中，耳濡目染，应该有所进步。但由于自己学习不够，思想远远落后于客观现实，国家已经进入社会主义，而我的思想还没有进入社会主义。经过这次各方面对我善意的揭发、批评，受到了很大教育，我深深的痛悔前非！今后，我要坚决站稳人民立场，努力学习马列主义理论，改造自己，决心丢掉旧思想、旧作风的包袱，诚心诚意的在中国共产党和毛主席的领导下，永远跟着共产党走，坚决走社会主义道路，坚决一边倒向苏联！按毛主席指示的六项政治标准从新做人。
    我的政治水平不高，认识不够，对自己的错误检讨得不够深刻细致，请各位同志给我指教！
    最后，我以目前的政治地位，在几次的发言当中，发生了严重的错误，对国际团结、社会主义事业和人民利益都起了不利的影响。午夜思维，愧悔交集！我除向组织和人大云南小组作检讨外，请求党和政府给我以应有的处分。
