Title: On the Issue of Rent Reduction and Interest Rate Reduction, Reasonable Burden, and Industrial and Commercial Policies - Speech by Rao Shushi at the People's Representative Conference of All Circles in Songjiang County
Author: 
Date: 1949-10-15
Page: 1

Xinhua News Agency, Shanghai, 14th—The full text of Rao Shushi’s speech at the People's Representative Conference of All Circles in Songjiang County—On the Issue of Rent Reduction and Interest Rate Reduction, Reasonable Burden, and Industrial and Commercial Policies—is as follows:

　　Dear Representatives!

　　Today, the People's Representative Conference of All Circles in Songjiang County opens. I have made a special trip from Shanghai to celebrate the opening of your conference! And I wish your conference a success!

　　I would like to talk about the following three issues at this conference:

　　　　First, on the issue of rent reduction and interest rate reduction in the new rural areas

　　Recently, the East China Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China announced the Draft Temporary Regulations on Rent Reduction in Rural Areas of New Districts in East China and suggested that people's representatives conferences at all levels in East China discuss and adopt it. The draft rent reduction regulations generally stipulate regarding rent reduction: the original rent should be reduced by 25 to 30 percent. Any other forms of exploitation and malpractice other than land rent should be abolished and prohibited. Landlords must not take back land due to rent reduction, or sublet, pawn, or sell the land. However, for workers, handicraftsmen, poor self-employed individuals, poor revolutionary army dependents, and widows, widowers, orphans, and the disabled who rent out all or part of their land due to lack of labor, and the amount does not exceed the average land owned by local middle peasants, the government and farmers' associations can negotiate and reduce the rent appropriately or not reduce it at all. For those local tyrants and bullies who rely on their power to seize farmers' land and property, after farmers report them, the farmers' association proves it, and the government's investigation confirms it, the farmers can recover it without compensation. For war criminals and key counter-revolutionary elements, the county people's government should submit a request to the provincial people's government for a legal judgment to confiscate their land and distribute it to landless and land-poor peasants. Regarding debts, the general regulations stipulate: all debts of war criminals and extremely heinous bullies should be abolished. Debts owed by farmers to landlords and old-style rich peasants in the past, if they are of a usurious nature, should have their interest stopped and only the principal repaid. Low-interest debts should still be repaid as usual. The creditors' rights and debts of landlords and rich peasants in industry and commerce are not subject to suspension of interest. In the future, loan interest rates will be freely negotiated by both parties, and there must be borrowing and repayment, so as to prevent those with money from not daring to lend in the future, and farmers from not being able to borrow in the future. The above rent reduction regulations are generally applicable to all new districts in East China. I believe that in the current situation in Songjiang, it is also equally applicable. Therefore, I hope that all of you representatives will discuss and adopt this rent reduction regulation. And formulate specific implementation methods suitable for Songjiang County based on the situation in Songjiang.

　　When discussing this rent reduction regulation, some farmer representatives may raise the following questions, namely: Doesn't the Chinese Communist Party adhere to the policy of land reform? Doesn't it believe that land reform is the just demand of the peasants? Isn't the approval of land reform currently one of the main criteria for distinguishing between true and false patriotism and true and false democracy by all patriotic democratic people? Doesn't the Chinese Communist Party regard abolishing the feudal exploitation land system and implementing the system of land to the tillers as the basic task of the new democratic revolution? Hasn't land reform already been implemented in the old liberated areas north of the Yangtze River? Why can't we implement land reform immediately and instead implement rent reduction? I reply: Yes, we Chinese Communist Party adhere to the policy of land reform. Yes, all patriotic democratic people in China today should also regard whether they support land reform as one of the main criteria for distinguishing between true and false patriotism and true and false democracy. However, today the war at the front has not ended, and there are still scattered bandits in many places in the rear of the new districts of East China that need to be cleared. Social order has not been completely stabilized, and the two levels of rural district and township governments have not been reformed, and are still mostly controlled and manipulated by landlords and old Baojia chiefs. The broad masses of laboring farmers have not been universally mobilized and organized, and have not yet universally established sound farmers' associations. Under such conditions, if land reform is carried out hastily, not only will it be difficult to achieve good results, but there is also a danger of being sabotaged and disrupted by the enemy, which is detrimental to our laboring farmers themselves. Today, we are carrying out the rent reduction movement in the new districts, just like the new districts where bandits and secret agents have not been wiped out and evil bullies have not been overthrown should first carry out the suppression of bandits and the overthrow of evil bullies. Both are to mobilize the broad masses of laboring farmers and establish the superior power of the peasants, so as to achieve the goal of weakening feudal forces in the countryside and preparing the necessary conditions for future land reform. Therefore, today we are carrying out bandit suppression, overthrowing evil bullies, reforming the government, and carrying out reasonable burden and rent reduction and interest rate reduction struggles in all new districts, all precisely to mobilize and organize the masses, all precisely to accelerate the preparation of conditions for land reform. If we do the above preparations quickly and well, then the time for the new districts to implement land reform may be advanced; otherwise, the time for the new districts to implement land reform may be delayed even later.

　　When I say that the new districts will resolutely implement land reform like the old districts in the future, perhaps some representatives will ask: Why is land reform the just demand of the peasants? Why should whether or not one agrees with land reform be used as the main criterion for distinguishing between true and false patriotism and true and false democracy? I reply: The reason is that Chinese peasants account for 80 percent of the total population of China, while most of the land in old China is concentrated in the hands of the landowning class who do not work for a living. The vast majority of laboring peasants have no land or only very little land, so the landowning class can use the land they occupy to implement extremely cruel feudal exploitation of the peasants. This is the root cause of our Chinese nation being invaded, oppressed, impoverished, and backward, and it is the basic obstacle to our country's democratization, industrialization, independence, unification, and prosperity. Therefore, only by thoroughly reforming this feudal exploitative land system and implementing the system of land to the tillers can the broad masses of laboring peasants be liberated, can rural productivity and farmers' purchasing power be greatly increased, so that China's industry and commerce can develop, the economy can prosper, cultural and educational undertakings can be revitalized, and the country can embark on true democratization. If the peasants, who account for 80 percent of the country's population, cannot be liberated from feudal exploitation and oppression and obtain true democracy and freedom, then the so-called democracy is false. If one does not support the peasants, who account for 80 percent of the total number of Chinese people, to stand up and enable them to actively participate in the work of defending the motherland and developing production, then the so-called patriotism is also false. The Chinese working class and the Chinese Communist Party have seen this clearly, so they have always adhered to the policy of land reform and regarded the implementation of land reform as the basic task of the new democratic revolution. Therefore, every true patriotic democrat should support and approve of land reform, and should not oppose or obstruct land reform; should support and support the peasant emancipation movement, and should not oppose or obstruct the peasant emancipation movement. (⑴⑵)

　　When we say that the new districts cannot carry out land reform today, but should temporarily implement the policy of rent reduction, some landlords may use the fact that the peasant masses have not yet been mobilized to carry out various illegal activities. For example: transferring land, destroying farm tools, slaughtering cattle, or eating and drinking lavishly, etc. Therefore, we should give a warning in advance to these landlords who are stubbornly obsessed and willing to be enemies of the people. We can tell them clearly: If they really want to do this, it is not only a violation of the laws of the People's Government, but it will also arouse greater hatred and anger from the broad masses against them, and they will eventually reap the consequences. We hope that those landlords can immediately stop all illegal activities and criminal acts that harm the people's property, and quickly reform themselves, participate in labor, and strive for production. As long as they can truly do this, the masses will give them lenient treatment based on their future factual performance, and will also give them a share of land and property sufficient to maintain their livelihood in the future land reform.

　　That is all I want to say about the issue of implementing rent reduction and interest rate reduction in the new districts and implementing land reform in the future.

　　　　Second, on our policy towards industry and commerce

　　We resolutely adopt a protection policy for urban and rural industry and commerce, except for taking action against speculators and profiteers and any violations of government laws and regulations. The economic policy of New Democracy is to develop production and prosper the economy, and the economic policy of New Democracy is to take care of all aspects. In other words, it is to implement the policy of "both public and private interests, both labor and capital, mutual assistance between urban and rural areas, and internal and external exchange." We adopt the policy of "taking into account both public and private interests" in the relationship between public and private. We adopt the policy of "both labor and capital benefit" in the relationship between labor and capital. In the future, labor-capital disputes should be resolved reasonably through negotiation, mediation, arbitration, and court judgments, instead of taking the methods of strikes, slowdowns, surrounding managers and factory directors, or surrounding offices that were used in the Kuomintang era in the past. We must rely on the working class in order to restore and develop production, and developing production will be the overriding task in the entire stage of economic construction. We must do a good job in trade union work, unite and educate all workers and other laboring masses, take care of their interests, care about their lives, and constantly strive to improve their political awareness and cultural level; but on the other hand, we must prevent left-leaning emotions and biases. All demands must not only conform to the general level of social production and living, but also take into account the specific circumstances of various places and factories. Our state-owned enterprises are completely different in nature from the bureaucratic capital of the Kuomintang in the past. The Kuomintang's bureaucratic capital adopted the method of extracting and squeezing the people at will, and adopted the method of excluding, suppressing, and annexing the national bourgeoisie. Our state-owned enterprises are the property of the people's country, are the leading component of the national economy, and produce and serve for social needs and the interests of the people. It adopts the policy of supporting and assisting all private enterprises that are beneficial to the people. Its leadership over private enterprises is to guide all private capital to develop in a direction that is beneficial to the national economy and the people's livelihood, and not in a direction that is unfavorable or harmful to the national economy and the people's livelihood. In order to protect the development of national industry and commerce, not only the Central Committee of our Party and Chairman Mao have stipulated a complete set of policies, but also local people's governments have formulated many correct laws and methods for handling labor-capital relations based on this. Recently, the Shanghai Military Control Commission promulgated the "Provisional Measures on Procedures for Mediation of Labor-Capital Disputes in Private Enterprises" and the "Provisional Measures for Handling Disputes over Resumption of Work and Production." I believe that these two measures are applicable to large, medium, and small cities and market towns throughout East China, and I think they are also applicable to Songjiang. Therefore, I suggest that this conference adopt these two measures. This will be beneficial to you in correctly handling labor-capital relations and developing production in the future.

　　　　Third, on the issue of reasonable burden

　　This includes the collection of public grain (agricultural tax) in rural areas and the consolidation of various taxes in towns and cities. Because the war at the front has not ended, and various production organizations in the rear must be appropriately restored and developed, it is very necessary for us to not only ensure the huge military supply at the front, but also ensure the necessary funds for various tasks in the rear. Therefore, it is very necessary to temporarily adopt the system of collecting public grain in rural areas and to consolidate various taxes in towns and cities. What is particularly worth mentioning for your reference is that the people in our old liberated areas, especially the farmers in the old liberated areas, have paid extremely heavy burdens in the past and present in order to support the War of Liberation and win the victory of the people's revolution. They have not only paid countless public grain and public grass, ensuring the supply of our troops in extremely difficult circumstances, but also handed over millions of their most beloved and outstanding children to join the People's Liberation Army, enabling us to defeat the Kuomintang reactionaries, the running dogs directly assisted by the American imperialists, and win today's great victory. This is worthy of sincere gratitude from the people of our country, and should be remembered forever! This summer, our million-strong army crossed the Yangtze River to fight. In order to ensure the supply of food for the army and win the victory of the war, we took emergency measures to requisition military grain, and received support and cooperation from all walks of life, enabling us to overcome difficulties and achieve the great victory of liberating Ningbo, Shanghai, Hangzhou, and various places in Jiangnan. We would like to express our sincere gratitude to all the representatives and the people of Jiangnan! However, in the process of requisitioning military grain this summer, due to the excessively tight schedule and the arbitrary apportionment by some old Baojia chiefs, some individual places had made some wrong deviations that violated the instructions of the East China Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the regulations of the East China Military Region of the People's Liberation Army. We deeply regret this and have ordered various places to quickly correct it. Because the masses have not been mobilized, the two levels of district and township governments have not been reformed, there are few cadres working in the new districts, and we lack sufficient experience in collecting public grain in the new districts and consolidating taxes in towns and cities, we have no choice but to follow the principle of more grain from those with more grain, less grain from those with less grain, and no grain from those without grain. We will temporarily use the household registration as the unit of burden, temporarily use the assessed mu or assessed yuan recorded in the tax registers of various counties during the Kuomintang era, and adopt the method of progressive collection by household. And mobilize people from all walks of life to investigate black land, report concealment, and launch a struggle against landlords and evil bullies who shift the burden. Similarly, our consolidation of taxes in various cities and market towns, in addition to canceling past exorbitant taxes and certain obviously unreasonable taxes, can only temporarily follow certain old tax regulations and tax rates of the Kuomintang era, and gradually reform and consolidate them. We deeply know that in the past, the Kuomintang's corrupt ruling institutions were controlled by feudal bureaucrats, and many of their tax registers and tax regulations were unreasonable; and most of the land taxes and taxes in the Kuomintang era were embezzled by Kuomintang reactionary bureaucrats for their own benefit. But when we temporarily use certain old tax registers and tax regulations of the Kuomintang to collect taxes in order to ensure war supplies and avoid chaos caused by too hasty reforms, we can guarantee that all income will be used entirely for the country and the people, and we will never allow embezzlement for our own benefit. Just in this respect, our tax policy is fundamentally different in nature from that of the Kuomintang era. Therefore, I personally basically agree with the provisions of the revised method for collecting public grain and public grass this year promulgated by the Sunan Administrative Region Administrative Office.

　　Dear Representatives! These are the three points I want to talk to you about. Other issues, such as our Party's firm policy of protecting education and culture and caring about the learning and future of young students, will be mentioned by the county magistrate and other comrades. I am sorry that I cannot discuss them in detail here due to time constraints.

　　Dear Representatives! Our current basic environment and situation are: on the one hand, we have already won a great victory—an unprecedented great victory in Chinese history. For example, we have defeated domestic and foreign enemies, the national revolution has achieved a basic victory, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference is being held, and the People's Republic of China and the Central People's Government of China are about to be established, etc. But on the other hand, we are still facing serious difficulties that need to be overcome urgently. Such as the War of Liberation has not ended, the task of supporting the front is still arduous, the peasant masses in the new districts have not been universally mobilized, the scattered bandits and secret agents in the rear have not been completely wiped out, especially the financial and economic difficulties caused by the blockade of the imperialist Kuomintang, etc. As Chairman Mao said: "Imperialism and domestic reactionaries will never be reconciled to their defeat. They will still make a last-ditch struggle. After the country is pacified, they will still engage in sabotage and disruption in various ways. They will try to restore China every day and every hour. This is inevitable, without any doubt. We must not relax our vigilance." But we must also point out that the difficulties we face are difficulties in development and victory. We have the correct leadership of Chairman Mao and the Chinese Communist Party; we have the consolidated and united forces of the working class, the peasant class, the petty bourgeoisie, the national bourgeoisie, and all patriotic democrats; we have more than 20 years of hard struggle and experience in overcoming all difficulties; we have the Soviet Union and various new democratic countries and the working people of all countries in the world standing by our side, who sympathize with us and encourage us to move forward; we will surely overcome any difficulties and win the victory of the new democratic construction!



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 关于减租减息合理负担与工商政策问题  饶漱石在松江全县各界人民代表会议的讲话

1949-10-15
第1版()
专栏：

　　关于减租减息合理负担与工商政策问题
    饶漱石在松江全县各界人民代表会议的讲话
    【新华社上海十四日电】饶漱石在松江全县各界人民代表会议的讲话——关于减租减息合理负担与工商政策问题——，全文如下：
    各位代表先生！
    今天松江全县各界人民代表会议开幕，我特别从上海赶来庆祝你们会议开幕！并预祝你们会议的成功！
    我想在这次会议上讲一讲以下三个问题：
    　　　　第一、关于新区农村减租减息问题
    最近中共中央华东局公布了华东新区农村减租暂行条例草案，并建议华东各地各界人民代表会议加以讨论和采纳。这个减租条例草案关于减租方面一般规定：按照原租额减低百分之二十五至三十，除地租以外，其他任何变相剥削和陋规，均应取消与禁止。地主不得因减租而收回土地，或将土地转租、出典或出卖。但对于凡属工人、手工业者、贫苦自由职业者、贫苦革命军人家属与鳏、寡、孤、独、残废等，因缺乏劳动力而出租全部或一部分土地，不超过当地一般中农所有土地的平均数者，可由政府及农会协商，酌情少减或不减。凡豪绅恶霸恃强霸占农民的土地及财产，经农民告发，农会证明，政府调查属实者，得由农民无代价收回。凡战争罪犯及反革命首要分子，应由县人民政府呈请省级人民政府依法判决，没收其土地，并分配给无地少地农民所有。关于债务方面一般规定：凡战争罪犯及罪大恶极的恶霸分子，其债务一律废除。过去农民向地主及旧式富农所借的债务，如属高利贷性质者，一律停利还本。低息债务，仍照常还本付息。地主富农在工商业中的债权、债务，不在停息之列。今后借贷利息，则由双方自由议定，并须有借有还，以免有钱的人今后不敢贷款，及农民今后借不到债。上述这个减租条例，对华东所有一切新区是一般适用的。我相信在目前松江情况下，也是同样适用的。因此，我希望各位代表先生们讨论通过这个减租条例。并根据松江情况订出适合于松江县的具体实施办法。
    在讨论这个减租条例时，部分农民代表先生们，可能会提出下列的问题，即：中国共产党不是坚持土地改革的政策么？不是认为土地改革是农民的正义要求么？不是目前一切爱国民主人士都把是否赞助土地改革，作为区别真假爱国与真假民主的主要标准之一么？中国共产党不是把废除封建剥削的土地制度和实行耕者有其田的制度，当作新民主主义革命的基本任务么？长江以北各老解放区内，不是已经实行了土地改革么？为什么我们目前不能立即实行土地改革而要实行减租呢？我回答说：是的，我们中国共产党是坚持土地改革政策的。是的，目前中国一切爱国民主人士也应当把赞助土地改革与否，作为区别真假爱国和真假民主的主要标准之一。但今天前方战争尚未结束，华东新区后方不少地方仍有散匪尚待肃清，社会秩序尚未完全安定，农村区乡两级政权多未改造，并仍大部被地主及旧的保甲长所操纵把持，广大劳动农民群众尚未普遍发动，尚未普遍组织起来，即还没有普遍建立健全的农民协会。在此种条件下，如果仓卒进行土地改革，不但难于收到良好的效果，而且有被敌人破坏搅乱的危险，这是对我们劳动农民自己不利的。今天我们在新区进行减租运动，正和那些土匪特务尚未肃清，恶霸分子尚未打倒的新区，应首先进行清剿土匪和打倒恶霸一样，都是为了发动广大劳动农民群众，树立农民的优势力量，以便达到削弱农村封建势力的目的，并为将来土地改革准备必要的条件。所以我们今天在一切新区进行清剿土匪，打倒恶霸，改造政权和进行合理负担与减租减息斗争，都正是为发动和组织群众，都正是为土地改革加紧准备条件。如果我们对上述种种准备工作，做得快而且好，则新区实行土地改革的时间便可能提早；反之，则新区实行土地改革的时间便可能要拖到更晚。
    当我说到新区将来要和老区一样坚决实行土地改革时，或许有个别代表先生要问：为什么土地改革是农民正义的要求呢？为什么要把赞成土地改革与否作为目前区别真假爱国与真假民主的主要标准呢？我回答说：其原因就是因为中国农民占全中国人口总数百分之八十，而旧中国的土地，则大部分是集中于不劳而获的地主阶级的手中，绝大部分劳动农民没有土地或者只有很少的土地，故地主阶级能够利用他们所占有的土地，对农民施行极其残酷的封建剥削，这是我们中华民族被侵略、被压迫、穷困及落后的根源，是我们国家民主化、工业化、独立、统一及富强的基本障碍。所以只有彻底改革这种封建剥削的土地制度，实行耕者有其田的制度，才能使广大的劳动农民得到翻身，才能大大提高农村的生产力与农民的购买力，使中国工商业得以发展，经济得以繁荣，文化教育事业得以振兴，国家得以走上真正民主化。如果占全国人口百分之八十的农民不能从封建剥削压迫之下解放出来，获得真正的民主自由，则所谓民主便是假的。如果不赞成占中国人民总数百分之八十的农民翻身，使他们能够积极参加保卫祖国与发展生产的工作，则所谓爱国也便是假的。中国工人阶级和中国共产党正是看清楚了这一点，所以始终坚持土地改革的政策，并把实行土地改革作为新民主主义革命的基本任务。所以每一个真正的爱国民主人士是应当拥护和赞成土地改革，而不应当反对或阻挠土地改革；是应当拥护和支持农民翻身运动，而不应当反对或阻挠农民翻身运动。（⑴⑵）
    当我们说到今天新区尚不能进行土地改革，而暂时还应当执行减租政策时，可能有部分地主会利用农民群众尚未发动起来，而进行种种非法活动。例如：转移土地，破坏农具，宰杀耕牛或大吃大喝等等。因此，我们应当向这种执迷不悟，甘为人民之敌的地主，预先提出警告。我们可以明白告诉他们说：如果他们真要这样做，这不但是违犯了人民政府的法令，而且必将激起广大群众对他们更加仇恨和愤怒，他们最后必将自食其果。我们希望那些地主们，能立即停止一切非法活动与损害人民财产的犯罪行为，并迅速改过自新，参加劳动，努力生产事业。只要他们真正能够这样做，则群众必将依照其今后的事实表现而给以宽大待遇，并在将来土地改革时，也必将给以其足够维持生活的一份土地和财产。
    关于新区目前执行减租减息与将来实行土地改革的问题，我所要讲的话就是如此。
    　　　　第二、关于我们对工商业政策问题
    我们对城市和乡村的工商业，除了对投机奸商以及对任何违反政府法令的行为，应依法取缔外，是坚决采取保护政策。新民主主义经济的方针是发展生产、繁荣经济，新民主主义的经济政策，就是照顾四面八方的政策。换句话说，就是实行“公私兼顾，劳资两利，城乡互助，内外交流”的政策。我们在公私关系上是采取“公私兼顾”的方针。我们对劳资关系，是采取“劳资两利”的政策。今后对劳资纠纷应采取协商、调解、仲裁、法院判决的途径求得合理解决，而不必要采取过去在国民党时代所运用的怠工、罢工、包围经理厂长或包围写字间的办法。我们必须依靠工人阶级，以便恢复和发展生产，而发展生产又将是整个经济建设阶段压倒一切的任务。我们必须把工会工作做好，必须团结和教育全体工人及其他劳动群众，照顾他们的利益，关心他们的生活，并不断为提高他们的政治觉悟与文化水平而努力；但另一方面，必须防止左的情绪和偏向。一切要求不但要符合社会的一般生产水平和生活水平，而且要照顾各地各厂的具体情况。我们国营企业和过去国民党官僚资本性质完全不同。国民党官僚资本，对人民是采取尽情的压榨，对民族资产阶级是采取排挤、压迫、吞并的办法。而我们的国营企业则是人民国家的财产，是国民经济中的领导成份，是为社会需要和人民利益而生产而服务的。它对一切于人民有益的私人企业是采取扶助支持的方针。它对私人企业的领导是采取诱导一切私人资本向着有利于国计民生的方向发展，而不向着不利或有害于国计民生的方向发展。为了保护民族工商业的发展，不但我党中央和毛主席规定了全套完整的政策，而且各地人民政府也据此制订了许多正确处理劳资关系的法令和办法。最近上海军管会曾颁布了“关于私营企业劳资争议调处程序暂行办法”和“关于复业复工纠纷处理暂行办法”，我认为这两个办法对华东各地大、中、小城市和集镇都是适用的，我想对松江也是一样适用的。因此，我建议此次会议采纳这两个办法。这对你们今后正确处理劳资关系和发展生产都有好处的。
    　　　　第三、关于合理负担问题
    这里包括对农村公粮（农业税）的征收与对城镇各种税收的整理问题。由于前方战争尚未结束，与后方各种生产机构必须适当恢复和发展，因此，我们目前不但要保障前方巨大的军事供给，而且还要保障后方各种工作必需的经费。因此，在农村中暂时普遍采取征收公粮制度与在城镇中进行整理各种税收是非常必要的。这里特别值得提出供各位代表先生们参考的，就是我们老解放区人民，特别是老解放区的农民，为了支援解放战争，争取人民革命的胜利，过去和现在都支付出极其重大的负担。他们不但支付了不可数计的公粮公草，使我们在极度艰难困苦中保证了部队的供给，而且交出了成百万他们最亲爱的优秀子弟参加人民解放军，使我们能够打败美帝国主义者所直接帮助的走狗国民党反动派，争取到今天的伟大胜利。这是值得我们全国人民衷诚感谢，而且应当久志不忘的！我们今夏百万大军渡江作战，为了保证军队粮食的供给和争取战争的胜利，曾采取征借军粮的紧急措施，并得到各界人士拥护和合作，使我们克服了困难，取得解放宁、沪、杭与江南各地的伟大胜利。我们应特向各位代表及江南人民表示衷诚的感谢！但在今夏征借军粮过程中，由于时间过分紧促和部分旧保甲长任意摊派，致个别地方曾发生过若干违背中共中央华东局指示与人民解放军华东军区规定的错误偏向，我们对此深表遗憾，并已责令各地迅速纠正。由于群众尚未发动，区乡两级政权多未改造，新区工作干部较少，再加上我们对新区征收公粮及对城镇整理税收，尚缺乏足够的经验，因此，我们在今年进行秋征时，只好本着粮多多出，粮少少出，无粮不出的原则，以户口为负担单位，暂时利用国民党时代各县赋册所载的赋亩或赋元，采取按户累进征收的办法，并发动各界群众进行清查黑地，检举隐瞒，展开反地主恶霸转嫁负担的斗争。同样我们对各城市和集镇税收的整理，除了对过去苛捐杂税与某些显然极不合理的税收，即予取消外，也只好暂时按照国民党时代某些旧有税规税率，加以逐步改造和整理。我们深深知道，过去国民党腐败统治机构，为封建官僚所把持，他们所有赋册和税规有很多是不合理的；而且国民党时代大部分田赋和税收均为国民党反动官僚所贪污自肥。但当我们目前为保证战争供给及为避免过急改革引起混乱，而暂时利用国民党某些旧有赋册和税规进行征收时，我们对一切收入均可保证完全为国家和人民所使用，决不许贪污自肥。仅仅就这一点来说，我们和国民党时代的税收政策，在性质上是根本不同的。因此，我个人在基本上是同意苏南行政区行政公署所颁布的今年征收公粮公草的修正办法的规定。
    各位代表先生们！这就是我想对大家要讲的三点意见。其他如我党坚决保护教育、文化的方针及关心青年学生的学习和出路等问题，县长和其他同志都会说到，恕我因为时间的关系，不能在此详谈。
    各位代表先生们！我们目前所处的基本环境和情况是：一面我们已经获得了伟大的胜利——中国人民历史上空前未有的伟大胜利。如打败了国内外的敌人，全国革命已取得基本的胜利，中国人民政治协商会议正在召开，中华人民共和国与中国人民中央政府即将宣告成立等等。但另一方面，在我们面前还摆着严重的困难，急待我们去克服。如解放战争尚未结束，支援前线任务依然繁重，新区农民群众尚未普遍发动，后方散匪特务尚未完全肃清，特别是由于帝国主义国民党的封锁所造成的财政经济的困难等等。正如毛主席所说：“帝国主义和国内反动派决不甘心于他们的失败，他们还要作最后的挣扎，在全国平定以后，他们也还会以各种方式从事破坏和捣乱，他们将每日每时企图在中国复辟，这是必然的，毫无疑义的，我们务必不要松懈自己的警惕性”。但我们必须同时指出，我们面前的困难都是发展和胜利中的困难。我们有毛主席和中国共产党的正确领导；有工人阶级、农民阶级、小资产阶级、民族资产阶级及一切爱国民主人士巩固团结的力量；有二十多年来艰苦奋斗和克服着一切困难的经验；有苏联及各新民主国家与全世界各国劳动人民站在我们一边，他们同情和鼓励我们前进；我们一定可以克服任何困难，争取新民主主义建设的胜利！
