Title: Directive of the Industry Department of the Northeast People's Government on Continuing to Implement the Economic Accounting System
Author: 
Date: 1949-10-14
Page: 2
Xinhua News Agency, Shenyang, 13th: The Industry Department of the Northeast People's Government recently issued a "Directive on Continuing to Implement the Economic Accounting System." The original text is as follows:

　　　　(I)
    On July 29th, the Industry Department issued a decision on strengthening the economic accounting system and launching a struggle against waste, pointing out that this is "the central link in the current industrial sector's operation and management." According to recent inspections, except for the Coal Mining Bureau, Benxi Coal and Iron Company, Enterprise Administration Bureau, Machinery Administration Bureau, Textile Administration Bureau, and Electrical Industry Administration Bureau, which have initially carried out relatively in-depth mobilization, taken effective steps, and their responsible comrades have gone deep into factories and mines, beginning to gain some typical experience. Generally speaking, most factories and mines have not sufficiently implemented the Industry Department's decision and have not achieved the due results. Some management units and factory and mine leaders even lack sufficient understanding of the significant meaning and role of establishing an economic accounting system in the current industrial construction of Northeast China from an ideological perspective. Furthermore, they do not understand that inspecting and exposing serious waste phenomena in production proves that their work has become more in-depth. On the contrary, they fear criticism from others and dissemination by newspapers, and therefore dare not or are unwilling to lead the masses in conducting movements to inspect waste in production. This has caused the work of various factories and mines to remain at the current level for a long time, making it impossible to move forward and causing the country's wealth to continue to suffer significant losses. The Industry Department believes that all factories and mines that have seriously exposed production waste have taken a major step forward in their work. Because they first discovered the problems, providing conditions for improving work, such factories and mines and their leading cadres should be encouraged. Conversely, those factories and mines and their leading comrades who avoid mentioning the waste in their own factories and mines, are unwilling to discover and expose the problems existing in their management, or excessively emphasize objective difficulties such as busy daily work, unstable prices, untimely supply of raw materials, abnormal production, incomplete organization, and insufficient cadres, and do not actively promote and implement the economic accounting system should be criticized and reprimanded. Because they are unwilling to face up to the problems in their work and are unwilling to improve their work. Therefore, if the erroneous understanding, conservative thinking, and bureaucratic attitudes of leading cadres towards implementing the economic accounting system are not overcome first, the anti-waste struggle and the strengthening of the economic accounting system cannot be developed into a mass movement. The creations and rational suggestions of workers and technicians in the actual production process of factories and mines cannot be given the due commendation and promotion, and therefore it is impossible to achieve the expected goal of the Industry Department: that is, in the second half of this year, to seize the main link of economic accounting and the anti-waste struggle in leadership, and through a preliminary economic accounting system, fundamentally improve and promote industrial construction further, creating favorable conditions and a reliable foundation for more planned and organized industrial recovery and development next year.
    　　　　(II)
    Regarding how to further promote and implement the economic accounting system in factories and mines, and its specific content and steps, the Industry Department, based on recent experience summary, puts forward the following requirements, hoping that all factories and mines will immediately seriously discuss and implement them:
    (1) Launch mass movements to create new production records and mass struggles against waste. Shenyang Machine Tool Factory No. 3 began producing lathes in April this year. Making a stepped pulley was estimated to take sixteen hours, and in May and June this was reduced to eight hours. In July, workers from the factory visited Machine Tool Factory No. 4, where they saw that it only took four hours to make a stepped pulley. As a result, lathe operator Zhao Guoyou began creating a record of making a stepped pulley in two hours and thirty minutes. Later, through continuous research, tools were modified, and a combination of turning and milling operations was adopted. On September 14th, a new record of making a stepped pulley in one hour, sixteen minutes, and thirty seconds was created. At the same time, Machine Tool Factory No. 1 and No. 3 launched movements to create new production records, resulting in a large number of advanced producers such as Zhao Guoyou, Zhao Fuyou, Dang Huian, Chen Jimin, and Zhang Shangju, greatly improving production efficiency and beginning to overcome the serious waste phenomena that existed in the production process in the past. We believe that the experience of Machine Tool Factory No. 1 and No. 3 in launching movements to create new production records is very valuable and worth learning by all factories and mines.
    At present, the waste phenomena existing in state-owned industries are manifested on the one hand by individual cadres indulging in pleasure and corruption in their lives, extravagance and waste, and by a small number of old management and purchasing personnel whose thinking has not been reformed, using public office for private gain, stealing and selling public property, colluding with unscrupulous merchants, and falsely reporting accounts. On the other hand, the more important aspect is waste in the production process, lack of systems for production management, poor organization of labor, low production efficiency, high consumption of raw materials and materials, no standards for water and electricity consumption, low product quality, many defective products, high costs, and unreasonable organizational structures and management systems. Although the forms and degrees of manifestation of this waste phenomenon in the production process are different, it is widespread and exists in large quantities, causing huge losses to the people and the country's wealth. Precisely because waste in the production process is the fatal problem in our current industrial construction, it has become the link that should be grasped first in carrying out economic accounting. If these problems are overcome, the overall work of factories and mines can take a big step forward. After summarizing the recent experience of machine tool factories in creating new production records, the Industry Department believes that all our factories and mines should develop and expand this experience, that is, not only limit it to creating new records for shortening working hours, but extend the creation of new production records to all aspects (new records for improving work efficiency, new records for improving product quality, new records for reducing raw material consumption, new records for reducing the number of defective products, new records for saving water and electricity, new records for eliminating accidents, new records for increasing production... etc.). This should be formed into a "mass movement for universally creating new production records." After advanced producers who create various new records appear in various work departments and corners, we should promptly call on and organize those advanced producers to pass on their experience to other employees, and call on all employees to learn from advanced producers. That is, the "universal movement to create new production records" should be closely combined with the "movement to promote the experience of advanced producers." All cadres in the industrial sector must recognize that this "movement to create new production records" is a more concrete manifestation of strengthening economic accounting and the struggle against waste. Because on the one hand, it actively overcomes waste in production, which is a further development of the struggle against waste; on the other hand, because it will promote thousands of technical improvements and work method improvements, it will greatly help the progress of economic accounting. Therefore, the leadership is required to cooperate with the advancement of the movement, promptly listen to the various rational suggestions of workers and technicians on production management, launch inspections of our overall work, and expose waste phenomena in all aspects. Not only should workers and technicians be involved in this movement, but administrative and management personnel also need to be organized to make improvements in their own work positions, in management systems, and in management methods, in order to create new records. So as to first overcome the main unreasonable phenomena in production, and then gradually solve other secondary aspects of unreasonable phenomena.
    (2) Technical quotas and reward systems. Under normal circumstances, after advanced producers have created new records and the anti-waste struggle has been launched into a mass movement, the central issue is how to consolidate the morale of the masses and how to adhere to and promote advanced experience. In the past, the merit competition movement launched by various factories and mines played a great role in promoting production improvement, but most factories and mines did not combine the achievements and records created by workers and technicians in the merit competition movement with the implementation of quota management by the leadership and the bonus system based on quota management. The production records created by advanced producers cannot be given a definite guarantee in the organizational system and material basis, and thereby generally improve the production technology level of the factory. Therefore, when evaluating merits, there is a phenomenon of no standards (that is, no production quotas). After the merit evaluation and awards, there is no regular reward system to combine the interests of individual employees with the interests of all working people, so as to promote and promote the continuous improvement of production technology. The current mass movement to create new production records and anti-waste movement is different from the past merit competition movement. Therefore, after the enthusiasm of the masses has been mobilized, it is necessary to propose reasonable technical quotas in a timely manner, such as product quality standards, work hour standards, raw material, fuel, and water and electricity use standards... etc. The evaluation of these new technical quotas must absorb the experience of advanced producers. Under normal circumstances, it should be between the new records achieved by advanced producers and the current actual technical standards. That is to say, it should be and must be a quota that the workers can accept today that is higher than the current actual technical standards.
    Here, some mine leaders should break away from their timidity and fear of not daring to set quotas due to the low technical level today, or fear of the tendency of heroism, and dare not launch a movement to create new production records. These ideas actually hinder us from establishing a quota management system. Because the problem is not whether we stipulate technical quotas or not, but in fact quotas exist. The revolutionary heroism of advanced producers precisely reflects the labor enthusiasm of the working masses, which is completely consistent with our national interests and must never be confused with individual heroism. As long as after the mass movement to create new production records and check production waste, technical quotas will inevitably be improved, and even many places will certainly exceed the puppet Manchukuo standards, which is not surprising at all. Of course, this quota is also preliminary and not accurate enough, and it needs to continue to promote the creation of new technical quotas. With the stipulation of technical quotas, all factories and mines are required to establish a series of reward systems suitable for quota management in administrative management. The content of this reward system can take different forms according to the different production nature of each factory and mine, such as: (1) Regularly check the implementation of technical quotas and stipulate material rewards for those who exceed the quotas within a certain period of time. (2) Factories and workers sign collective contracts. (3) Establish a rationalization proposal committee in factories and mines to review and approve employees' rationalization proposals, and after adopting the rationalization proposals, extract a certain amount from the increased production and created wealth as a bonus to reward the original proposer. (4) In places where piecework can be implemented, start implementing piecework wages. In short, it is necessary to turn the reward method into a regular system to adjust the unreasonable phenomena in the current factory and mine salary system, and at the same time gradually overcome the phenomenon of egalitarianism in wages. That is to say, we must increase wages on the basis of improving production, so as to gradually change our current wage system from a monthly and daily wage system to a hourly and piecework wage system and an over-quota bonus system.
    (3) Establish cost accounting. From the bottom up, promote and promote the experience of creating new production records, implement the quota management system, and cooperate with the business management department to actively study how to improve our ordering and product distribution plans, improve the production inspection system, improve the supply of raw materials, avoid finished product backlog, stipulate the amount of working capital, and accelerate the turnover of funds, the purpose of which is to improve production, improve quality, and reduce costs.
    Therefore, all factories and mines are required to truly achieve by the end of this year that they can calculate the unit cost of all their products more accurately on a factory and mine basis.
    At present, there is indeed a relatively complex problem in cost accounting, that is, the price of raw materials cannot be fixed. And in the case that prices cannot be finally stabilized today and some industrial equipment must rely on the free market to solve, this problem cannot be completely solved at present. But we must also oppose the conclusion that correct cost accounting cannot be established because of this. In order to solve this difficulty, we are prepared to establish two methods of calculating costs from the Industry Department to all factories and mines: one is based on the material catalog and unit price uniformly printed by the Finance and Economics Committee, which is fixed and unchanged within a considerable period of time. The raw materials and consumables used by each factory and mine are calculated together with the production, regardless of their actual allocation price and market price, and the unit cost price of the product is calculated according to the uniformly stipulated fixed unit price. Although this cost unit price is not completely consistent with the actual consumption and monetary payment amount of the usage fee, it can still be used to see the increase or decrease of the actual cost, that is, the quota of consumed materials, labor, etc., so as to promote how to actually improve our work, thereby reducing the actual cost (the specific implementation of this method will be notified separately after the Finance and Economics Committee and the Industry Department print out all the material catalogs and unit prices, and each factory and mine should prepare for it at present). The other type of cost calculation is the current method, in which all used material costs are calculated based on the actual monetary payment. The current factories and mines have begun to establish it, but it is far from complete and correct, and we must strive to improve it and strive to ensure that all factories and mines can accurately calculate costs by the end of this year, so that we can more accurately grasp planned costs, manage costs, and strive to continuously reduce costs.
    (4) Strengthen statistical work. This is a prerequisite for strengthening the economic accounting system. Without systematic and detailed statistical work, it is impossible to carry out correct cost accounting and effective quota management. In the past, the production, construction, and consumption of materials by various factories and mines lacked complete original records, and even if there were records, they were often not statistically made on time. The leadership cannot grasp the situation in time, and will inevitably fall into blindness and passivity, and the work will be busy and procrastinating.
    Therefore, all bureaus, companies, and factories and mines are required to truly and conscientiously implement the statistical content, forms, and statistical methods stipulated in the Industry Department's instructions in early July. The implementation steps should generally complete the quota work in November, and at the latest in the first ten days of November, and complete the cost work by the middle of December, so as to serve as the basis for formulating next year's plan.
    　　　CardArrayAdapter(III)
    Convening employee representative conferences and improving the factory management committee to implement democratic management is one of the main methods for promoting and strengthening the economic accounting system. In the leadership of our state-owned factories and mines, there is currently a serious problem that democracy is not sufficiently promoted in factory management. Some factories and mines have serious bureaucracy in their leadership, do not understand the situation below, the work of the factory management committee is formalistic, and many instructions and decisions of the higher authorities cannot be correctly implemented. Therefore, in order to improve the management of our factories, we must hold employee representative conferences regularly in a prepared and led manner, and through the employee representative conferences and the factory management committee, extend the "movement to create new production records" to all aspects (improving labor efficiency, saving raw materials, improving quality, reducing defective products, etc.), and extend the improvement of technology and work methods (like what Zhao Guoyou, Zhao Fuyou, Dang Huian, Zhang Shangju, etc. have done) and the improvement of management systems and methods to all aspects.
    The Industry Department now decides that all factories and mines under its jurisdiction must convene employee representative meetings recently. The administrative responsible comrades of factories and mines should not only regularly report the production and construction situation of the entire factory and mine to the management committee and the employee representative conference, but also conduct appropriate and serious self-criticism of some problems in administrative management and the waste caused by poor management, so as to inspire workers and technicians to boldly put forward various positive and beneficial suggestions. The leadership should humbly listen to their opinions and harmoniously discuss matters with them. The reasonable suggestions they put forward must be adopted and implemented.
    Recently, the CPC Central Committee and the Northeast Bureau have repeatedly instructed the significance of convening people's representative conferences in various places. The application of this instruction to our industrial sector should be to give play to the role of employee representative conferences in various systems and factories and mines. This employee representative conference is as important to our industrial departments and factories and mines as the people's representative conference is to local administrative leaders. Only by opposing disorganization and indiscipline on the one hand, strictly implementing centralized unity, and fully promoting democracy from the bottom up by convening employee representative conferences on the other hand, and giving play to the labor enthusiasm of the masses, can the two be combined to form a correct democratic centralism. Only in this way can we truly unite from top to bottom like a steel rope and truly improve the industry. Therefore, the Industry Department has ordered all bureaus and factories and mines to designate the convening of employee representative conferences as a work system, and not to delay the convening of employee representative conferences with any excuses. At present, we should first use the employee representative conference to promote the inspection of production waste and the universal creation of new production records into a mass movement.
    In order to complete the above tasks, the responsible comrades of each bureau, company, and factory and mine must ask the local party committee for instructions, make specific arrangements under the guidance of the local party committee, and obtain close cooperation with the trade union, work together, rely on all employees, and earnestly implement it.
    　　　　(IV)
    Implementing and strengthening the economic accounting system is an arduous and complex task. This requires the leading comrades of each bureau, company, and factory and mine to ideologically recognize the important significance of the economic accounting system. Therefore, we have decided that the two articles "The Essence of Soviet Economic Accounting" and "Struggle for Improving Enterprise Profits" in the sixth issue of International Economy and Stalin's "Speech at the First All-Soviet Stakhanov Workers Conference" (reprinted in the sixth issue of Industrial Communications) are compulsory reading materials for cadres above the level of factory director and mine manager. All leading cadres are required to be diligent and conscientious, study their business, humbly learn from the advanced experience of the socialist country, the Soviet Union, in industrial management, overcome all conservative thinking that adheres to conventions, eliminate all difficulties, go deep into factories and mines, do it themselves, make achievements, discover and summarize typical experience well, educate and promote all employees, give play to everyone's wisdom and creativity, and complete the glorious tasks entrusted to us by the Party and the country.
    　　　　(V)
    The Industry Department orders the leading comrades of each bureau (company), factory, and mine to launch discussions, make specific arrangements, and summarize experience (even if it is very small) and report to the Industry Department after receiving this decision. Each month, each bureau (company) should also make a monthly summary of experience and report to the Industry Department.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 东北人民政府工业部关于继续贯彻经济核算制的指示

1949-10-14
第2版()
专栏：

　　东北人民政府工业部关于继续贯彻经济核算制的指示
    【新华社沈阳十三日电】东北人民政府工业部近发布“关于继续贯彻经济核算制的指示”，原件如下：
    　　　　（一）
    七月二十九日工业部发布了关于加强经济核算制、开展反浪费斗争的决定，并指出这是“目前工业部门经营管理上的中心一环”。根据最近检查看来，除煤矿局、本溪煤铁公司、企业管理局、机械管理局、纺织管理局、电气工业管理局，已初步进行了比较深入的动员，采取了有效步骤，负责同志深入厂矿，开始取得某些典型经验外。一般的说，大多数厂矿，对工业部决定的贯彻，还很不够，还没有做出应有的成绩。甚至有些管理单位和厂矿的领导同志，从思想上对建立经济核算制，在目前东北工业建设中的重大意义和作用，缺乏足够的认识。并且不了解检查与揭发出了生产中严重的浪费现象，正是证明他的工作更加深入了一步。相反地却惧怕别人的批评和报纸的传布，因而不敢与不愿领导群众进行检查生产中浪费的运动。从而使各厂矿的工作，长期地停留在现在的水平，而无法前进，使国家财富继续受到大量损失。工业部认为凡是已经比较认真地揭发了生产浪费的厂矿，都是工作大大前进了一步的厂矿。因为他们首先发现了问题，提供了改进工作的条件，这样的厂矿及其领导干部应该得到鼓励。相反，讳言自己厂矿中的浪费，不愿发现和揭露自己在管理上所存在的毛病，或者过份强调日常工作忙，物价不稳定，原材料供给不及时，生产不正常，机构不健全，干部不够等客观困难，不积极地去推行和贯彻经济核算制的那些厂矿及其领导同志，则应受到批评与指责。因为他们不肯正视自己工作中的毛病，不肯改进自己的工作。因此，如果首先不克服领导干部当中对贯彻经济核算制的错误认识、保守思想和官僚主义的态度，则反浪费斗争和加强经济核算制就不可能开展成为群众运动。厂矿实际生产过程中工人群众和技术人员的创造和合理建议，也就不可能得到应有的表扬和推广，因此也就不可能达到工业部预期的目的：即在今年下半年领导上抓住经济核算与反浪费斗争这一主要环节，经过初步的经济核算制，将工业建设从根本上提高和推进一步，给明年更有计划有组织的工业的恢复和发展创造有利的条件和可靠的基础。
    　　　　（二）
    关于在工厂矿山中如何进一步推行和贯彻经济核算制，及其具体内容和步骤，工业部根据最近的经验总结，提出以下要求，希望所有厂矿立即认真讨论和执行：
    （一）开展群众性的创造生产新纪录运动与群众性的反浪费斗争。沈阳机械三厂今年四月份开始生产车床，作一个塔轮估工十六小时，五六月份降到八小时。七月份该厂工友参观了机械四厂，看到四厂作塔轮只要四小时，于是车工赵国有便开始创造了作塔轮二点三十分的纪录。以后经过不断的研究，改造了工具，采用车铣结合的操作方法，于九月十四日又创造了以一点十六分半钟作一个塔轮的新纪录。与此同时，机械一厂、三厂均展开了创造生产新纪录运动，出现了赵国有、赵富有、党会安、陈济民、张尚举等大批先进生产者，大大地提高了生产效率，开始克服了过去在生产过程中所存在的严重浪费现象。我们认为机械一厂和三厂开展创造生产新纪录的经验，是很可宝贵的，值得所有厂矿来学习。
    目前在国营工业中存在的浪费现象，一方面表现在个别干部在生活上享乐腐化，铺张挥霍，及少数思想上未改造的旧的管理采买人员，假公济私，盗卖公物，勾结奸商，虚报帐目等。另一方面更主要的则是在生产过程中的浪费，生产管理缺乏制度，劳动力组织不好，生产效率低，原料和材料消耗多，水、电消耗无标准，产品的质量低，废品多，成本高以及组织机构和管理制度的不合理等。这种在生产过程中的浪费现象，虽然其表现的形式与程度不同，但它是普遍大量存在的，对人民和国家财富造成着巨大损失。正是由于生产过程中的浪费是目前我们工业建设中致命的毛病，所以它成为进行经济核算首先应该抓住的环节。如果把这些毛病克服，工矿中全面的工作即可向前大进一步。工业部在总结了机械厂最近创造生产新纪录的经验后，认为我们所有的厂矿应该把这一经验发挥与扩大，即不仅仅限于创造缩短工作时间的新纪录，而是把创造生产新纪录推广到各个方面去（提高工作效率的新纪录，提高产品质量的新纪录，降低原材料消耗的新纪录，减少废品数量的新纪录，节省水电的新纪录，消灭事故的新纪录，增加产量的新纪录………等等）。把它形成为一个“普遍创造生产新纪录的群众运动”。在各个工作部门与角落出现了创造各种新纪录的先进生产者之后，即应及时地号召与组织那些先进生产者把他们的经验传授给其他职工群众，并号召所有职工向先进生产者学习。也就是把“普遍创造生产新纪录运动”与“推广先进生产者经验运动”紧密地结合起来。所有工业部门中的干部，必须认识这一“创造生产新纪录运动”是加强经济核算与反浪费斗争更加具体的表现。因为它一方面从积极方面克服着生产中的浪费，是反浪费斗争进一步的发展；另方面由于它会促进千百件的技术改善与工作方法的改善，因而就大大地有助于经济核算的前进。因此要求领导上配合运动的前进，即时听取工人群众、技术人员对生产管理的各种合理建议，展开对我们全面工作的检查，揭发各方面的浪费现象。不仅使工人、技术人员卷入这个运动，同是还需要把行政人员与管理人员组织起来，使他们在自己的工作岗位上，在管理制度与管理方法上有所改进，以便创造出新的纪录。以便首先克服生产中主要的不合理现象，再逐次解决其他次要方面的不合理现象。
    （二）技术定额与奖励制度。在一般的情况下，当生产先进者创造了新纪录和反浪费斗争已经展开成为群众运动后，中心的问题，即是如何巩固群众的情绪及如何坚持与推广先进经验。过去各厂矿开展的立功竞赛运动，曾经对生产的改进起了很大的推动作用，但是也有多数厂矿对立功竞赛运动中工人和技术人员所创造的成绩和纪录，没有和领导上实行定额管理以及基于定额管理基础上的超额奖励制度结合起来。对先进生产者所创造的生产纪录，不能在组织制度上和物资基础上给以确切的保证，并由此而普遍地提高本厂的生产技术水平，因此在评功时便发生没有标准（即没有生产定额）的现象，评功奖励后，又没有一个经常的奖励制度，来使职工个人的利益和全体劳动人民利益相结合，以促进和推动生产技术继续不断地向前提高。此次开展群众性的创造生产新纪录和反浪费运动，和过去的立功竞赛运动是有不同的。因此，在群众的积极性已经发动后，必须适时地提出规定合理的技术定额，如产品的质量标准，工时的标定，原料、燃料及水、电使用的标准……等等。这些新的技术定额的评定，必须吸取先进生产者的经验。在一般的情况下，它应该是介乎先进生产者所达到的新纪录和现在实际上的技术标准之间。就是说它应该是而且必须是工人群众今天所能接受的高于现在实际上技术标准的定额。
    这里应打破某些工矿领导同志畏首畏尾，害怕因今天技术水平低，不敢规定定额，或者害怕发生英雄主义的偏向，而不敢发动创造生产新纪录运动。这些想法，实际上都妨碍我们建立定额管理制度。因为问题不在于我们规定不规定技术定额，而实际上定额是存在的。先进生产者革命的英雄主义正是表现了工人群众的劳动热忱，它与我们国家利益是完全一致的，绝不能把它与个人英雄主义混淆起来。只要经过群众性的创造生产新纪录和检查生产浪费运动以后，技术定额就必然会提高，甚至许多地方也一定会超过伪满的标准，这是毫不足奇怪的。当然这种定额也是初步的，还不够准确，还需要继续不断促进创造新的技术定额。随着技术定额的规定，就要求所有厂、矿在行政管理上建立起一系列的适合定额管理的奖励制度。这种奖励制度的内容，可根据各厂矿生产性质的不同，采取不同的形式，如：（１）经常检查技术定额执行的情形，并规定一定时间给超过定额者以物质的奖励。（２）厂方和工友订立集体合同。（３）工厂矿山中建立合理化建议委员会，审查和批准职工的合理化建议，并且在采纳合理化建议后，从其多生产和创造出的财富中，提出一定的数目作为奖金，奖给原提议人。（４）可能实行计件的地方，开始实行计件工资。总之是要把奖励办法，变成经常的制度，来调整现在厂矿中工薪制度的不合理现象，同时逐渐克服在工薪上的平均主义现象。就是说，我们要在提高生产的基础上来增加工资，以便逐渐地改变我们现行的工资制度，由计月计日工资制逐渐走到计时计件工资制和超额奖励制度。
    （三）建立成本核算。自下而上地提倡和推广创造生产新纪录的经验，实行定额管理制度，配合经理工作部门积极研究如何改善我们的订货和产品分配计划，改善生产品的检查制，改善原材料的供应，避免成品积压，规定流动资金的数额，加速资金的周转，其目的在于提高生产，改进质量，减低成本。
    因此要求所有厂矿必须在今年年底以前确实作到以工厂、矿山为单位，能够比较正确地计算出自己全部产品的单位成本来。
    目前在成本计算中，确实有一个比较复杂的问题，这就是原材料的价格不能固定。而在今天物价不能最后稳定和部分工业器材必须仰赖自由市场解决的情况下，这一问题在目前尚不可能彻底解决。但也要反对由此得出结论说：正确的成本核算就无法建立。为了解决这一困难，我们准备从工业部到所有厂矿均建立两种计算成本的办法：一种是根据财经委员会统一印发的材料目录和单价，规定在相当时期内固定不变。各厂矿所用原材料及消耗品与生产品计，不管其实际拨付价格及市价如何，都按统一规定的固定单价来计算出产品的单位成本价格。此种成本单价，尽管它与其实际消耗和使用费用的货币支付额不完全一致，但是仍可通过这种计算方法，来看出实际成本即耗费材料、人工等定额的升降，以便促进在实际上如何改进自己的工作，从而使实际成本降低（这种办法的具体执行，待将来财经委员会和工业部将全部材料目录和单价印好后另行通知规定，目前各厂矿应作准备工作）。另外一种成本计算，即是现在的办法，一切使用的材料费用均根据实际货币的支付来计算，目前各厂矿已开始建立，但还远不完备和正确，必须力求改进，争取在今年年底以前所有厂矿都能正确地计算成本，使我们能够比较准确地掌握计划成本，管理成本，为不断地降低成本而努力。
    （四）加强统计工作。这是加强经济核算制的先决条件。没有系统的周密的统计工作，就不可能进行正确的成本核算和有效的定额管理。过去各厂矿生产、修建、消耗材料等多缺乏完备的原始纪录，即有纪录也多未按时作出统计。领导上不能及时掌握情况，必然陷于盲目与被动，工作上形成忙乱拖踏现象。
    为此要求各局、公司和厂矿根据工业部七月初的指示所规定的统计内容、表格与统计方法确实认真执行。执行步骤，一般的应在十一月，至迟十一月上旬把定额工作完成，十二月半将成本工作做好。以便作为明年制订计划的依据。
    　　　　（三）
    召开职工代表会与健全工厂管理委员会，贯彻管理民主化，是推动和加强经济核算制的主要方法之一。在我们国营厂矿的领导上，目前存在着一个严重的问题是在工厂管理上发扬民主不够。某些厂矿在领导上存在有严重的官僚主义现象，不了解下情，工厂管理委员会的工作有形式主义，上级的许多指示决定，不能够正确地贯彻。因此为了改善我们工厂的管理，就必须有准备有领导地定期召开职工代表会，通过职工代表会和工厂管理委员会，把“创造生产新纪录运动”推广到各个方面（提高劳动效率，节省原料，提高质量，减少废品等等），把改进技术，改进工作方法（象赵国有、赵富有、党会安、张尚举等所作的那样），改进管理制度与方法，推广到各个方面。
    工业部现决定所属的所有工厂、矿山，最近均须召开职工代表会议。工厂矿山的行政负责同志不仅应定期向管理委员会和工代会报告全厂全矿的生产修建情况，而且对行政管理上的某些毛病，及因管理不善而造成的浪费现象，也要进行适当的严肃的自我批评，以启发工人和技术人员大胆地提出各种积极的有益的建议。领导上应虚心倾听他们的意见，和谐地和他们商量办事。对他们提出的合理的建议，必须采纳执行。
    最近中共中央与东北局再三指示各地召开人民代表会的意义。这一指示运用到我们工业部门应该是发挥各系统与各厂矿职工代表会议的作用。这一职工代表会议对于我们工业各部门各厂矿，正如人民代表会议对于各地方行政领导一样的重要。只有在一方面反对无组织无纪律，严格地实行集中统一，与一方面自下而上地召开职工代表会充分发挥民主，发挥群众的劳动积极热忱，两者结合起来，才是正确的民主集中制。只有这样才能真正上下团结的象一根钢绳一样，把工业真正提高一步。因此工业部又责成各局与各厂矿应把召开职工代表会定为工作制度，不允许以任何借口托延职工代表会的召开。目前应该首先运用职工代表会把检查生产的浪费与普遍创造生产新纪录推广为群众性的运动。
    为完成以上任务，各局、公司和厂矿的负责同志，必须向当地党委请示，在当地党委的指导下，具体布置，和职工会取得密切配合，协同一致，依靠全体职工，认真贯彻。
    　　　　（四）
    贯彻和加强经济核算制，是一件艰巨复杂的任务。这就要求各局、公司和厂矿的领导同志，从思想上认识经济核算制的重要意义。因此我们决定国际经济第六期“苏联经济核算的本质”、“为提高企业利润而斗争”两篇文章及斯大林“在第一次全苏联斯达哈诺夫工作者会议上的演说”（工业通讯第六期转载）为最近厂长、矿长以上干部必读的文件。要求所有领导干部兢兢业业，钻研业务，虚心学习先进社会主义国家苏联在工业管理上的经验，克服一切墨守成规的保守思想，排除一切困难，深入厂矿，亲自动手，作出成绩，很好地发现和总结典型经验，教育和推动全体职工。发挥大家的智慧和创造，完成党和国家所赋予我们的光荣任务。
    　　　　（五）
    工业部责成各局（公司）厂矿的领导同志，接此决定后必须展开讨论，具体布置，并随时总结经验（即便是很小的）报告工业部。每个月各局（公司）并应做出每月的经验总结报告工业部。
