Title: Guarantee the Good Work of Culture in the Company
Author: Chen Yi
Date: 1952-07-30
Page: 3

Editor's Note: In April of this year, the Cultural Department of the General Political Department of the Military Commission held a symposium of all army cultural ministers, examined the cultural and artistic work of the troops, and decided to resolutely implement the policy of "facing the company and serving the soldiers" in the future, and stipulated the content of various tasks. The following two articles explain the above-mentioned policy and put forward specific methods for implementing the policy. The two articles were originally published in "Liberation Army Literature and Art" in July 1952.

This year and in the future, the cultural and artistic work of our army will be basically carried out in accordance with the policy of "comprehensively developing the combat and mass cultural and artistic work of the People's Liberation Army" stipulated by the Second Propaganda, Education and Cultural Work Conference of the whole army in 1951, emphasizing the Youth League as the core, carrying out mass amateur activities, and focusing on how to solve the actual needs of the company. Judging from the results of the examination of the "Three-Anti" movement in cultural work, this policy is completely correct and meets the actual needs. The question is how to implement it. At present, the lack of cultural life and the inadequacy of cultural life in the troops are very serious. Last year, our cultural funding was not small, but not enough was used in the company.

Now, the average company can see movies twice a month; some see it once a month; and dispersed and remote companies can't see it even once a month. The publications published by the troops themselves, except for the reading materials for soldiers published by the major military regions, such as "Comrades," "Soldiers' Life," and "People's Soldiers," which can be seen by one platoon, other major publications, such as "Liberation Army Literature and Art" and "Liberation Army Pictorial," cannot be seen by many companies. The cultural and sports supplies issued to the company are also not many. Some companies issued basketballs, but there were no basketball stands.

The song and dance troupes rarely go to the company to perform for the company. Most of them stay above to serve the organs, and rarely go down to guide the cultural activities of the company. This makes the cultural activities of many companies start spontaneously, and then go with the flow, and finally fall into self-generation and self-destruction.

From the perspective of the development of our entire cultural work, the foundation has been lost, which is very dangerous. This fully shows that there is still a considerable distance between our correct policy of "facing the company and serving the soldiers" and "comprehensively developing the combat and mass cultural and artistic work of the People's Liberation Army" and the actual implementation; It also shows that we have not yet solved the problems of "who should literature and art serve" and "how to serve." This is still a lack of good understanding and implementation of Chairman Mao's literary and artistic direction.

We should foresee that after the cultural learning movement is launched in the whole army this year, the cultural level of the soldiers will be greatly improved. They will not only need more culture, but they will certainly not be satisfied with the current situation. This prospect is coming soon, and we must prepare to meet this new situation ideologically, organizationally, in our work, and in cadre training.

At the All-Army Cultural Minister Symposium in April of this year, we reviewed the bureaucracy in our leadership, the lack of mass concept, and the existence of unorganized and undisciplined phenomena in the implementation of the "facing the company and serving the soldiers" policy and certain specific tasks in some troops, and stipulated the methods for future work.

Our slogan is: "Implement the policy of comprehensively developing the combat and mass cultural and artistic work of the People's Liberation Army to the company!" Attach importance to and develop the cultural work of the company ideologically, organizationally, and in our work, and appropriately take care of the cultural life of the cadres.

This should be the central task of all levels of cultural departments, song and dance troupes, and all literary and art workers in our army without exception. It requires us to go all out in the second half of this year to develop it into a movement. It requires each of our cultural ministers and cultural section chiefs to lead a work team or a work group to a division, a regiment, and a company to create experience in order to promote the overall situation, and requires us to make significant achievements in the second half of this year.

How to develop it? Basically, it should be started from two aspects: one is how the organs and personnel of professional cultural and artistic work are combined with mass cultural and artistic activities; the other is how to develop mass and combat cultural and artistic activities in the company.

Here, we must first clarify the relationship between popularization and improvement, otherwise, it will inevitably affect the development of work. Chairman Mao told us: "Our improvement is based on popularization, and our popularization is based on the guidance of improvement." This is the scientific relationship between them. However, many of our comrades have not understood this issue for a long time. For example, some people separate running popular reading materials from running large publications, saying, "You are engaged in popularization, and we are engaged in improvement." Some people divide it from the stage, saying, "This stage is for popularization, and the next stage is for improvement." Some people think: "We are professional song and dance troupes specializing in improvement, while some of you are engaged in popularization." These situations show that these comrades have separated the relationship between popularization and improvement in their understanding. These comrades regard popularization work as a temporary situation, thinking that they will go to popularize it if people need it, but they do not realize that: "The so-called popularization is to popularize it to workers, peasants and soldiers, and the so-called improvement is to improve it from workers, peasants and soldiers." "This improvement is not an improvement in the air, not an improvement behind closed doors, but an improvement based on popularization. This improvement is determined by popularization, and at the same time guides popularization." Take our "soldiers performing for soldiers" as an example: if you are still as monotonous as in the past, it will not meet the needs of the masses. On the basis of popularization, the masses will definitely demand improvement year by year and month by month. When the masses improve, they not only demand the activity of "soldiers performing for soldiers," but also demand that the activity of "soldiers performing for soldiers" be improved from content to form, and they need more things to meet the needs of the masses. The reason why we want everyone to go down to do company work is not because the company has been popularized very well, but because many companies have not started it yet, and some have started it, but there are still many problems that need our help to solve; on the other hand, the ideological and political level of our literary and art workers is not high, and the phenomenon of being divorced from politics and the masses is still very serious, and they also need to be well-trained. In the meantime, some of our comrades have had a misconception that going down to engage in popularization will not improve themselves. On the contrary, doing a good job in popularization is precisely to achieve true improvement—that is, improvement based on popularization, and improvement that can guide popularization. Various forms of literary and artistic work can only be considered to have taken root in the masses after being tested and approved by the masses. On this root, due to the continuous improvement of the level of the masses, literary and artistic work must also improve accordingly. If you don't improve at this time, or even don't consider it, it will produce a one-sided view of popularization, as Chairman Mao pointed out: "If the popularizer is not higher than the popularizee, then what is the significance of popularization?"

For example, in our troops, the various aspects of an infantry division in the past and an infantry division after the transformation are different; the ideological and military technology progress and the weapons mastered by a soldier in the past and a soldier now are also different. The political and cultural level of the entire army has improved, and the requirements for literature and art have also improved. If we still use the old methods to carry out literary and artistic activities, it will not work. Take dancing as an example: it is not enough to always ask the soldiers to dance game dances and use the palm of their hands to beat the rhythm instead of music. This requires modification, this requires processing, and this requires improvement. In the past, the masses thought that Yangko and waist drums were not bad, but now they are not satisfied. Now soldiers generally welcome dancing and sports, which is a step forward than Yangko, and this is an improvement. Therefore, our literary and art workers should not worry that engaging in popularization will hinder their own development and improvement. In particular, the division song and dance troupe should clarify this point.

In the past, even if some of our creations and performances reflected the workers, peasants and soldiers to a certain extent, they were not taken to the workers, peasants and soldiers, and they have not seen them yet, which shows that our work is only half done.

Our song and dance troupes (especially the song and dance troupes) should carry out mass cultural and artistic activities in the company in accordance with this spirit. Some people feel that the 30 people in the division song and dance troupe are too few. I think the strength of 30 people is still not weak. As long as we carefully select them during the reorganization and form a comprehensive song and dance troupe, plus the military band of the headquarters, we can often cooperate with the song and dance troupe, which is not too few. As for what is called comprehensive? It refers to the diversity of art forms. In this way, although it is more difficult for the division song and dance troupe to engage in specialization, each comrade may as well develop forward with one major and others as auxiliary in peacetime. In addition to giving performances to the troops and helping the troops carry out cultural activities for two-thirds of the year, the division song and dance troupe should ensure that one-third of the time is used for studying business, summarizing experience, and rectifying ideas, which is very important. If you engage in business without learning business, it is like a tank soldier who cannot drive a tank, then what is a tank soldier? The song and dance troupes above the army should spend half of their time touring the troops with emphasis to help the troops carry out cultural and artistic activities, and half of their time studying, creating, rehearsing, and giving performances to the organs and for foreign publicity. The performance programs of the division should be demonstrations of mass cultural and artistic activities, and the form should be as comprehensive as possible. You should perform less large plays for the soldiers, because large plays have many conditions and are not easily accepted by the masses for a while. As for the performances of song and dance troupes above the army, they should be more advanced, because they have to take care of the cadres and give artistic and political assistance to the division song and dance troupes. But don't be too advanced. Especially this year, we should vigorously engage in popularization work, and first perform some short and concise programs to play a demonstrative role. Each military region should designate its subordinate song and dance troupes to create experience in a division and a regiment to promote the overall situation. As for the methods, they can be varied. The main ones can be as follows:

(1) Go to the troops to perform, and in the process of performing, cooperate with the division and regimental clubs to hold forums for active members of mass literary and artistic activities of the troops, and strive for the participation and guidance of military and political leaders. At the meeting, it should be pointed out that this year's cultural and educational work is the overriding central task, so that all personnel understand that cultural work is our common task, absorb opinions on the performances, and study and help solve the problems existing in mass cultural and artistic activities. To do this, special personnel should be sent during the performance process to cooperate with the regimental club to understand the main problems in mass cultural and artistic activities, so that they can be explained with concrete examples.

(2) Go to the troops in groups for a certain period of time. The task should be mainly to help carry out mass cultural and artistic activities. In a group, people of various aspects can be equipped—for example, when we went to a certain army this time, several people from the Liberation Army Literature and Art Society, the Liberation Army Pictorial Society, and the Film Department of the Ministry of Culture went, and each aspect was experimented and collected some opinions, which actually became a large work team. In addition, some small programs of the song and dance troupe and the acrobatic troupe were brought, and joint performances with active members of mass cultural activities helped the masses carry out activities. During the activities, pay attention to absorbing experience, finding out problems, collecting materials and semi-finished products, and after returning, make a good summary and study and process the semi-finished products. In this way, not only will it help the bottom, but it will also enrich itself and prepare for the next time.

(3) Concentrate efforts to attack the work of one unit. After going to the troops to perform (to give a demonstrative role), stay in this unit for a longer period of time, divide the comrades who go down into several groups to specifically help work, and cooperate with the regimental club to run short-term training courses for cultural and artistic activity backbones, so that this work can lay a foundation in this unit.

The above activities should be carried out with leadership and planning.

Our writers should guide mass creation, improve mass creation, process mass creation, and thereby absorb rich nutrition and enrich and improve their own creation. Our writers, regardless of their ability, should write a certain number of works for mass use and learning in a year, otherwise it will make us divorced from the masses. This article should be made into labor discipline.

To truly carry out mass cultural and artistic activities, doing a good job in club work is a decisive key. Because amateur activities still need people to lead them after all. Therefore, the establishment of the club organization and all its work is the development of cultural and artistic activities of the broad masses of the troops. It is required that the club cadres must be equipped in this reorganization and given the minimum training. It is necessary to change the past view of treating the club as a purely fun place from the actual effect. To make the club the center of mass cultural and artistic activities, the organizer and promoter of mass cultural and artistic activities, and the working organ for carrying out mass cultural and artistic activities, it should:

(1) Truly carry out work from top to bottom with leadership, planning, and organization, and overcome the spontaneous phenomenon to a certain extent in the past. The regimental club mainly guides and helps the company club to carry out work. In addition to guiding the work of the regimental club, the division club should also take into account the cultural life of the cadres and consider establishing a "cadre home." In addition to carrying out and organizing the cultural life of cadres, the military region club should mainly grasp the direction of club work, exchange experience, and supply materials.

According to the experience of relatively successful company club work in the past year, it has been proved that it is very important to organize various amateur activity groups. It is not enough to simply mobilize everyone to participate in activities, or to call on everyone to perform dramas and sing songs. When establishing various groups, don't put forward too many kinds at once. First, you must call and publicize, and establish them mainly on a voluntary basis. The center is to do a good job of preparation work before the establishment, and focus on doing a good job of those activities according to the specific situation of the unit, and then continue to carry out. At the same time, in these groups, it is necessary to grasp a few active members, and then gradually expand. Once a group is established, it should establish regular activities, so that it can gradually be enriched.

In the past, we often had a view that seemed comprehensive but was not actually comprehensive. If we want to play ball, everyone should play ball; if we want to perform a drama, everyone should participate in the drama; it seems that everyone should be the same, which is the real comprehensive development of mass cultural activities. In fact, this is impossible. We should take voluntariness as the main thing, organize all the masses into various activities, so that those who love that item can carry out activities in that item. Therefore, it is very necessary to arrange various activities in a planned and organized manner. There is no need to hold a party every week, and the party does not have to be "soldiers performing for soldiers." Instead, various activities should be flexibly combined, such as a ball game in the first week, a report can be organized in the second week, a singing or dance performance can be held in the third week, a performance party in the form of storytelling, fast talk, and recitation can be held in the fourth week, and a visit can be organized in the fifth week. In this way, each activity has enough time to prepare, and the process of preparing for the performance is itself a cultural and artistic activity. In this regard, our professional song and dance troupes are also needed. Regular rehearsals can be proficient, which is also learning and the starting point for preparing to retain programs.

(2) To develop comprehensively, we must pay attention to mastering the key points. According to different situations and different conditions, select one or two of them as the focus. For example, during this period, cooperating with cultural learning, we can focus on small-scale singing, fast talk, organizing experience reports, and organizing cultural games. At another time, we may focus on the development of military sports. In order to cooperate with internationalism and patriotic education, we can organize visits, organize special reports and exhibitions, which is of great benefit to expanding the horizons of soldiers. Without this, it is impossible to carry out work well, that is to say, cultural activities must be combined with current tasks.

There should also be key points in various activities. For example, in literary and artistic activities, the focus should be on songs and dances; in sports, the focus should be on those combined with military actions. At the same time, the focus can be determined according to different regions: for example, swimming can be held in the south, and skating and skiing can be held in the north. In this way, it can play its role well and attract more people to participate.

(3) Cultivating backbones is very important. The main methods are as follows:

1. Run various short-term training courses (of course, not all at the same time), with the regiment as the unit, and the song and dance troupe sends people to cooperate with the club to carry out them together. One week is enough time, and only one or two problems need to be solved.

2. In actual activities, when the work below feels difficult, we should seize the time and go down to help.

3. Taking the battalion as the unit, set a time every week to gather the active members to the battalion headquarters to explain some problems (such as the nature of night school).

The above methods can be decided to adopt one or several in combination according to the specific situation.

(4) Launching and organizing amateur mass creation, and giving guidance and processing in a planned and organized manner, and constantly improving its level. Organizing regular competitions, visits, and performances is an effective way to constantly promote and constantly improve, to master typical units, create experience, and promote experience.

In this way, the cultural work of the company can definitely be carried out, and it will definitely present a new look in a short time.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 保证把连队的文化工作作好
陈沂
1952-07-30
第3版()
专栏：

    保证把连队的文化工作作好
    人民革命军事委员会
    总政治部文化部部长  陈沂
    编者按：今年四月军委总政治部文化部召开了全军文化部长座谈会，检查了部队文化艺术工作，决定了今后坚决执行“面向连队，为兵服务”的方针，并规定了各项工作的内容。下面所载两文对上述方针作了阐释，并提出了贯彻方针的具体办法。两文原载“解放军文艺”一九五二年七月号。
    今年及今后我军的文化艺术工作，基本上是本着一九五一年全军第二届宣教文化工作会议所规定的“全面发展人民解放军战斗性、群众性文化艺术工作”的方针进行，强调以青年团为核心，开展群众性的业余活动，把重点放在如何解决连队实际需要的问题上。根据“三反”运动在文化工作中检查出来的问题的结果看，这个方针是完全正确的，是符合实际需要的。问题是我们如何来贯彻执行。目前部队缺乏文化生活和文化生活不够的情况，是很严重的。去年我们的文化经费，数目是不算少的，但用在连队的却不够多。
    现在一般的连队一个月能看到两次电影；有的一个月看一次；分散和边远的连队一个月还看不到一次。部队自己出版的刊物，除大军区出版的战士读物如“战友”“战士生活”“人民战士”等一个排可以看到一本外，其他大的刊物，如“解放军文艺”“解放军画报”，好多连队都看不到。文化体育用品连队发的也不多，有的连队发了篮球，却没有篮球架子。
    文工团、队下连队为连队演出的时候不多，有的连队一年见不到文工团、队。大多数留在上面为机关服务，下去辅导连队的文化活动则很少。这就使得好多连队的文化活动开始是自发，久之就自流，最后陷于自生自灭。
    从我们整个文化工作的开展来讲，就丧失了基础，这是很危险的，这充分说明我们“面向连队、为兵服务”以及“全面发展人民解放军战斗性、群众性文化艺术工作”的正确方针与实际执行的情况还有一个相当的距离；也说明我们对于“文艺为谁服务”“如何为法”的问题还没有得到很好的解决，这依然是对于毛主席的文艺方向没有很好的认识和贯彻。
    我们应该预见到：今年全军开展文化学习运动以后，战士的文化水平将大大提高，他们不仅更需要文化，而且一定不满足于现在的情况。这个前途，很快就要到来，我们必须从思想上、组织上、工作上、干部训练上来准备迎接这个新的情况。
    我们在今年四月全军文化部长座谈会上检讨了我们领导方面的官僚主义，群众观念不强，以及某些部队在“面向连队、为兵服务”方针执行上和某些具体工作上也存在着无组织、无纪律现象，并规定了今后工作的办法。
    我们的口号是：“把全面发展人民解放军战斗性、群众性的文化艺术工作的方针贯彻到连队去！”从思想上、组织上、工作上来重视和开展连队的文化工作，并适当地照顾干部的文化生活。
    这应该是我军各级文化部门、文工团、队、全体文艺工作者毫无例外的中心任务，要求我们今年下半年全力以赴，开展成为运动，要求我们每个文化部长、文化科长都要带一个工作队或一个工作组去一个师、一个团、一个连创造经验，以便推动全盘，并要求在今年下半年就作出显著的成绩来。
    如何开展呢？基本上应从两方面着手：一方面是专业文化艺术工作的机关与人员如何和群众文化艺术活动相结合；另一方面是如何在连队中发展群众性、战斗性的文化艺术活动。
    这里，我们首先要把普及与提高的关系弄清楚，否则，就必然影响到工作的开展。毛主席告诉我们：“我们的提高，是在普及基础上的提高，我们的普及，是在提高指导下的普及。”这就是它们之间的科学关系。然而我们好多同志在这一问题上，却很久未弄清楚。比如：有的人把办通俗读物与办大刊物分开了，说什么“你们是搞普及的，我们是搞提高的。”有的人则从阶段上来分，说：“这一阶段是搞普及，下一阶段才是搞提高。”有的人又认为：“我们是专业文工团专搞提高，而你们另外一些人则是搞普及的。”这种种情况，说明我们这些同志在认识上把普及与提高的关系截然分开了。这些同志把普及工作看成了暂时情况，认为人家需要就去给普及一下，而没有认识到：“所谓普及，也就是向工农兵普及，所谓提高，也就是从工农兵提高。”“这种提高，不是在空中提高，不是关门提高，而是在普及基础上的提高。这种提高，为普及所决定，同时又给普及以指导。”就拿我们“兵演兵”来说吧：假若你还是像过去那样单调，那就不能满足群众需要。在普及基础上群众是一定要求逐年逐月的提高的。群众提高了，他们不仅要求“兵演兵”这种活动，而且要求“兵演兵”的活动从内容到形式都要提高，还需要更多的东西，来满足群众的需要。我们要大家都下去搞连队工作的原因，并不是因为连队里已经普及得很好了，而是许多连队还没有搞起来，有的虽然搞起来了，但也还有许多问题需要我们去帮助解决；另一方面我们文艺工作者本身的思想政治水平不高，脱离政治，脱离群众的现象还很严重，也需要下去很好的锻炼。在这中间，我们有的同志曾经产生过一种错觉，认为下去搞普及，本身就不能提高了，恰恰相反，搞好普及工作，正是为了达到真正的提高——即是在普及基础上的提高，能指导普及的提高。各种形式的文艺工作，只有经过群众考验，群众批准，才能算在群众中扎了根。在这个根上，由于群众的水平不断提高，文艺工作也非随之提高不可。到这时候如果不提高，甚至连考虑都不考虑，就会产生片面的普及观点，正如毛主席所指示的：“普及者若不高于被普及者，则普及还有什么意义呢？”
    比如在我们部队里，过去一个步兵师和现在一个改装后的步兵师，各方面都有所不同；过去一个战士和现在一个战士思想上、军事技术上的进步和所掌握的武器也有所不同，整个部队的政治、文化水平提高了，对文艺的要求，也就跟着提高了，如果我们还是用过去那一套方式进行文艺活动就行不通了。拿舞蹈说吧：老是叫战士们跳游戏舞，用巴掌打拍子代替音乐的节奏就不够了，这就需要修改，这就需要加工，这就要求提高。过去群众觉得秧歌、腰鼓就不差了，现在他们就不满足，现在战士普遍欢迎舞蹈、欢迎体育，这就是比秧歌进了一步，这就是一种提高。所以我们文艺工作者不要耽心搞普及会妨碍了自己的发展和提高。特别是师文工队应该明确这一点。
    过去即使我们有些创作和演出的内容在一定程度上反映了工农兵，但没有拿到工农兵中去，他们还没有看到，说明我们的工作还只作了一半。
    我们的文工团、队（特别是文工队），应根据这个精神来开展连队群众性的文化艺术活动。有人觉得师文工队三十人少了，我以为三十人的力量还是不弱的，只要我们在整编时好好的挑选，组成综合性的文工队，加上司令部的军乐队，可以经常与文工队配合工作，这就不算少。至于什么叫综合性？就是指艺术形式的多样性。这样，师文工队搞专业化虽然比较难些，但平时每个同志不妨以一门为主，以其他为辅地来向前发展。师文工队除一年中以三分之二的时间给部队演出与帮助部队开展文化活动外，应保证有三分之一的时间作为学习业务、总结经验、整顿思想的时间，这是很重要的。假若搞业务而不学业务，就等于坦克兵不会开坦克一样，那还叫什么坦克兵呢？军以上的文工团应以二分之一的时间有重点地下部队巡回演出，帮助部队开展文化艺术活动，二分之一的时间学习、创作、排演、为机关干部及对外宣传演出。师的演出节目应是开展群众文化艺术活动的示范，形式要尽量是综合的。对战士应该少演大戏，因为大戏有很多条件限制，同时群众一时不易接受。至于军以上文工团的演出就要比较高级一些，因为要照顾到干部，并且给师的文工队以艺术上、政治上的帮助。但也不要太高级了。尤其今年要大力搞普及工作，更要首先演出些短小精悍的节目，以起到示范作用。各级军区都要指定所属的文工团、队，在一个师、一个团里创造经验，推动全盘。至于作的方法，则可采取多种多样的，主要的可有如下几种：
    （一）下部队演出，并在演出过程中配合师、团俱乐部，召开部队群众文艺活动积极分子的座谈会，争取军政首长参加指导。会上，应指出今年的文化教育工作是压倒一切的中心工作，使所有人员明确文化工作是我们共同的任务，吸取对演出的意见，并对群众文化艺术活动中存在的问题加以研究，帮助解决这些问题。要这样作，就应在演出过程中，派出专人，配合团俱乐部了解群众文化艺术活动中的主要问题，以便能用具体事例进行讲解。
    （二）在一定时期，分组下部队。其任务应以帮助开展群众文化艺术活动为主。在一个小组内，可配备各方面的人材——例如我们这次到某军去，解放军文艺社、解放军画报社、文化部电影处都去了几个人，各方面都去实验了一下和搜集了一些意见，实际上就成了一个大工作队。另外还带了文工团、杂技队的一些小的节目，和群众文化活动的积极分子联合演出，帮助群众开展活动。在活动期间要时刻注意吸取经验，找出问题，收集素材及半制品，回来之后，加以很好的总结，并把半制品研究加工。这样，就不但帮助了下面，也充实了自己，且为下次下去作了准备。
    （三）集中力量，突击一个单位的工作。在下部队演出（给以示范作用）之后，即在这一部队停留一较长时期，将下去的同志分成若干组，具体帮助工作，且协同团俱乐部开办短期的文化艺术活动骨干训练班，使这一工作在这个单位打下基础。
    以上各种活动，更应当有领导、有计划地进行。
    我们的作家应该指导群众创作，提高群众创作，为群众创作加工，并从而吸取丰富的营养，充实和提高自己的创作。我们的作家，不论能力高低，一年中都要写出一定数量的可供群众使用和学习的作品，否则就会使我们脱离群众。这一条应该订成劳动纪律。
    要想真正开展群众性的文化艺术活动，搞好俱乐部工作乃是一个决定的关键。因为业余的活动，终究还是要人去领导的。所以俱乐部机构及其全部工作的建立，就是部队广大群众文化艺术活动的开展。要求在这次整编中必须把俱乐部干部配备起来，并给以起码的训练。要从实际效果中改变过去把俱乐部当成单纯是玩玩乐乐的地方的看法。要使俱乐部成为群众文化艺术活动的中心，成为群众文化艺术活动的组织者与推动者，成为开展群众文化艺术活动的工作机关，就应当：
    （一）真正作到从上而下的有领导、有计划、有组织地进行工作，克服过去某种程度的自流现象。团的俱乐部主要是指导与帮助连队俱乐部开展工作，师的俱乐部除指导团俱乐部的工作的进行外，并应兼顾干部的文化生活，可以考虑建立“干部之家”。军区的俱乐部除了开展与组织干部文化生活而外，主要的应掌握俱乐部工作的方针及交流经验，供应材料。
    根据一年来比较成功的连队俱乐部工作的经验证明：组织各种业余的活动小组，是很重要的。只是一般的发动大家去活动，或者号召大家演戏、唱歌是不行的。成立各种组的时候，不要一下子提出很多种，首先是要号召和宣传一下，以自愿为主地成立起来。中心是要在成立前作好准备工作，按照本单位的具体情况，有重点地先作好那几种活动，再继续开展。同时在这些小组中，要抓住几个积极分子，再逐渐的扩大。成立了一个组，就应建立起经常的活动，这样才能逐渐的充实起来。
    过去我们往往有一个好似全面而实际并不全面的观点，要打球，全体都应当去打球；要演戏，全体都参加演戏；好像要每个人都一样，这才算真正全面的展开了群众性的文化活动。实际上这是不可能的。应该以自愿为主，把所有的群众组织到各种活动中去，使爱好那一项的，就在那一项中进行活动。因此，有计划、有组织地安排各种活动，是很必要的。不必每周都要开一次晚会，晚会也不必一定都是“兵演兵”，而应把各种活动灵活地配合起来，如第一周是球赛，第二周可以组织报告，第三周可以举行歌咏或者舞蹈表演，第四周可以开说唱、快板、朗诵等等形式的表演晚会，第五周或者是组织参观。这样，使每一种活动都有了充分的时间准备，而准备表演的过程，本身也就是文化艺术活动。在这点上就是我们的专业文工团、队，也是需要的，经常排练，就可以熟练，本身也就是学习，就是一种准备保留节目的起点。
    （二）要全面的发展，但要注意到有重点的掌握。根据不同的情况，不同的条件，选择其中之一、二种作为重点。如这时期配合文化学习，则可以小型的演唱、快板、组织学习经验报告，组织文化游戏为重点。另一时期也许又可以军事体育的开展为重点。为了配合国际主义及爱国主义教育，可以组织外出参观，组织专门报告及展览，这对扩大战士的视野有很大好处。不这样，也不可能很好地开展工作，这就是说，文化活动要结合当前任务。
    在各种活动中也应该有重点。如文艺活动，应当着重的是歌曲和舞蹈；体育则应以与军事动作相结合的为主。同时可根据不同地域来确定重点：如南方可举行游泳，北方可举行溜冰、滑雪等。这样，才能很好的发挥其作用，吸引更多人参加。
    （三）培养骨干，是很重要的。主要办法有这样几种：
    一、开办各种短期训练班（当然不是一齐开办），以团为单位，由文工团、队派人协同俱乐部共同进行，时间一个礼拜就够了，只要求解决一两个问题。
    二、在实际活动中，当下边工作感到困难时，应抓紧时间，下去给以帮助。
    三、以营为单位，每周定出时间，将积极分子集中到营部，讲解一些问题（如夜校性质）。
    以上办法，可根据具体情况，决定采取那一种或是几种并用。
    （四）发动与组织业余群众性的创作，并有计划、有组织地给以指导、加工，不断的提高其水平。定期的组织竞赛、参观、会演，这是不断推动与不断提高的有效办法，掌握典型单位，创造经验，推广经验。
    这样，连队的文化工作一定可以开展起来，而且一定在短时间就可以呈现一个新的面貌。
