Title: On Vulgar Sociological Tendencies in Literary Research—Starting from the Discussion of Liu Lao-lao in "Dream of the Red Chamber"
Author: Li Xifan, Lan Ling
Date: 1956-02-29
Page: 2

    On Vulgar Sociological Tendencies in Literary Research
    —Starting from the Discussion of Liu Lao-lao in "Dream of the Red Chamber"—
    Li Xifan, Lan Ling
    The "Literary Heritage" weekly of "Guangming Daily" once had a debate about Liu Lao-lao, a character in "Dream of the Red Chamber." One side of the debate was Feng Yuanjun's "On Liu Lao-lao" (Issue 35), and the other side was Zhou Peitong, Zhang Baoshen, and Li Dake's "What Kind of Person is Liu Lao-lao?" (Issue 39), which criticized the former article. Judging from the debate itself, it seems to give the impression that the opinions of these two articles are opposite, one is negative and the other is positive. The second article negated the first one with correct opinions, and the discussion ended. However, this small debate involves the fundamental question of how to treat classical literary heritage and general literary works: Is it realistic literary criticism, or vulgar sociological, mechanistic literary criticism? As a tendency, the debate about Liu Lao-lao is representative. We believe this is an issue that should be clarified, and we boldly put forward some opinions within our understanding, hoping to get corrections from Feng Yuanjun, Zhou Peitong, Zhang Baoshen, Li Dake, and other comrades.
      The author of "On Liu Lao-lao" examines Liu Lao-lao as the embodiment of a certain social concept. The author made the following three inferences about Liu Lao-lao's origin: "(1) Liu Lao-lao grew up in the countryside, but does not seem to be a poor peasant. (2) Liu Lao-lao had been to the homes of some high-ranking bureaucrats and landlords, has rich social experience, and is very sophisticated. (3) When Liu Lao-lao appeared on the scene, she had been living in her son-in-law Wang Gou'er's home for a long time, so the environment of the Wang family became her living environment. The Wang family was originally a small bureaucratic landlord family and had maintained relations with high-ranking bureaucrats and landlords, recognizing a common ancestry. Although her son-in-law has been reduced to a farmer, he has still enjoyed a life of comfort. From this point of view, Liu Lao-lao is a relatively complex character; she certainly participated in labor, but there is still a distance between her and the real peasants." "She is not a true" "genuine image of the laboring people," "so no honest and upright noble qualities of the laboring people can be found in her."
      The article "What Kind of Person is Liu Lao-lao" opposes the simple method of checking history and classifying class components in "On Liu Lao-lao." However, the author's basis is also
  individual details in "Dream of the Red Chamber" that describe Liu Lao-lao's life and character, affirming that she is "a person who is oppressed, exploited, insulted, and harmed under the feudal system," "a self-reliant, poor, and impoverished working woman who suffers from the threat of hunger and cold in her old age." Thus, everything about Liu Lao-lao has become the "noble qualities" of a "working woman." The author avoids talking about the complexity of her character.
    The conclusions of these two articles are completely opposite. However, the methods adopted are the same, that is, attempting to replace realistic artistic analysis with simple social concepts, and to cancel the rich content of artistic images with the division of class components.
    Since the authors of these two articles are trying to explain their views with Marxist terminology, we have to make a little more common-sense explanation in this article about what exactly is the Marxist literary viewpoint, and we have to make a little more citation in order to eliminate some rather popular misunderstandings. This is hoped to be forgiven by the readers.
    Marxism believes that literature and art are a kind of social phenomenon in the superstructure system. The principle that literature and art have class nature in a class society is the fundamental principle for analyzing the entire complexity of the development process of literature and art. It makes scientific analysis and judgment on the ideological nature of works according to the writer's creative description of life phenomena and character images, according to the writer's attitude and evaluation expressed in this description, and the emotions and desires revealed. However, the task of Marxist literary criticism is far from limited to this. It must also study the authenticity and typicality of the life phenomena and character images expressed in the works, and it must also study the artistic skills of the works, and the degree of mutual consistency between the form and content of the works. Only after comprehensive exploration of all of this can the social value and aesthetic value of the work be fully elucidated. Marxist literary criticism never neglects the characteristics of literature and art in the slightest. On the contrary, Marxism confirms that literature, as a means of recognizing the truth of life, is different from social science, because the task of literature is to directly express the specific and multifaceted phenomena of people's lives with perceptual images, rather than studying the abstract laws of life from a specific aspect, just as political economics studies the laws of development of people's production relations. Therefore, no matter how rich and complex people's life phenomena are, the content of literature can be equally rich and complex. Literature focuses on describing concrete social life, describing people's inner world and people's character. Everyone knows that social life is very complicated, and the conditions that affect people's inner world and character are especially complicated. Contrary to the reactionary writers who try to conceal real life, progressive writers, when reflecting the views of the advanced class in their works, not only do not allow untrue and simplistic descriptions of social life and character psychology, but also strive to most faithfully express the entire complexity of life and historical specificity, and express the character characteristics of each character. Only in this way can the writer correctly complete his lofty ideological and educational mission to the people. Strictly paying attention to the objective truth of every detail of events and characters, creating and analyzing typical characters in typical environments on the basis of the truth of life, is the basic condition that distinguishes the realistic creation method and criticism method from any formulaic and conceptual methods. Marxism has always opposed vulgar materialism that simplifies complex things. When discussing historical materialism, Engels repeatedly pointed out the interaction of all factors in history. In his famous letter to Bloch in 1890, he pointed out that economic movement only ultimately progresses as a necessity through endless accidental situations; "Otherwise, applying the theory to any historical period would be easier than calculating a simplest linear equation." Engels also said: "Young people sometimes overemphasize the economic aspect, and Marx and I are partly to blame for this. When refuting our opponents, we often had to emphasize those major principles that they denied, and were not always able to have sufficient time, place, and opportunity to give due attention to other factors involved in the interaction. However, as long as the problem is related to describing a historical period, that is, related to practical application, then the situation has changed, and no errors are allowed here. Unfortunately, people often think that as long as the basic principles have been understood, and not necessarily understood correctly, it is considered that the new theory has been fully understood and is able to apply it. In this regard, I can blame many of the latest 'Marxists'; it should be known that this has also produced amazing confusion..."
    Let's get back to the current topic. Among our literary researchers, many people have good intentions and want to analyze works with Marxist viewpoints, and this intention is undoubtedly worthy of warm welcome. However, some people simplify and vulgarize Marxism, to the extent that they regard the principle that literature and art have class nature as a simple formula and rigidly apply it to every description in the work, and to every word and deed of every character, believing that the character characteristics are simple class labels. Isn't this a kind of "amazing confusion"? The article "On Liu Lao-lao" is like this. The author first stipulates the four class-based characteristics of Liu Lao-lao from the inference of her class components, and then believes that Cao Xueqin created the image of Liu Lao-lao based on this view, as if Cao Xueqin, in the process of creating character images, was not based on real life, but on several abstract concepts of class characteristics. In the terms habitually used by mechanists, all realistic writers, when portraying character characteristics, closely adhere to the characteristics of the characters' class origin, and everything unrelated to "class origin" is discarded.
    Of course, the more a great realistic writer is, the more he is good at expressing the traits of people in a certain social group that he has observed - class, professional, and other characteristics, prominently and clearly. However, this does not mean that the writer expresses each person's character as certain fixed economic and political characteristics of his class origin. The types of class origin are limited. However, every class has different psychological states when it is in different eras, different stages of development, and different class struggle situations; and every class is further divided into different strata according to the economic, political, and cultural conditions of its members, and these strata have their own spiritual outlooks. People from the same class and stratum origin form various types of characters and various character characteristics due to different personal experiences and different material and spiritual influences they receive. Therefore, in the question of the relationship between characters' personalities and their class origins, we at least need to consider: (1) The personalities of people in class society must have class nature, and the personalities of people in different classes will not be the same; (2) The specific content and manifestation of class nature are determined by specific social and historical conditions, and the specific content and manifestation of class nature will not be exactly the same under different social and historical conditions; (3) People from the same class origin are also divided into different strata, and each individual has different experiences, so even under the same social and historical conditions, the class nature in the personalities of people from the same class origin will still have various differences, and this class nature may not be consistent with class origin; (4) In addition to the characteristics of class nature, there are also various personal characteristics in people's personalities. Personality is the sum of various psychological characteristics of the way an individual influences his behavior. Its development can be guided by position and world view under certain conditions, but it can never be included in position and world view. A person's personality is multifaceted, it is not the incarnation of an adjective, but a diverse combination of many adjectives. Precisely because of this, a class does not only produce a unique and eternally repetitive typical personality, but produces infinitely rich typical personalities. Precisely because of this, true realistic writers will never write formalistic works, and will never treat character personalities as a megaphone for a certain concept, or the "image" of a certain adjective. The typicality of a character does not exclude individuality. On the contrary, as Engels said in his letter to Minna Kautsky, the characters in literary works should be "each person is typical, yet at the same time a distinct individual, just as the old Hegel said 'this one'." We all know that in real life, not only are the personalities of people from the same class origin vastly different, but the personalities of people in the same family and even twins are not completely consistent, and may even be completely inconsistent. If a character's personality is only equal to the characteristics of class origin, then what is the point of studying people, understanding people, dissecting people's inner world, and cultivating people's personalities? What kind of arduous creative labor can writers talk about when creating characters? What special value does literature have as a method of understanding the truth of life? Therefore, it is wrong to attempt to directly equate the characteristics of the economic status shared by a certain class and stratum with the various character images with different personalities belonging to this class and stratum expressed in literary works. This is a schematic dissection that violates real life, not literary criticism, and not Marxism.
    The so-called grasping of the characteristics of class origin and living environment in the article "On Liu Lao-lao" are just a few abstract concepts imagined by the author out of thin air. If this is the case, then not only is it impossible for the Liu Lao-lao created by Cao Xueqin to be a living person with rich thoughts and feelings, she can only be the incarnation of a few concepts; moreover, the author's so-called "genuine laboring people" may have been very few in Cao Xueqin's era. Similarly, the article "What Kind of Person is Liu Lao-lao" bluntly simplifies the complex spiritual state existing in Liu Lao-lao's personality, as if Liu Lao-lao is the most beautiful typical image of the laboring people, and even her backward spiritual state and thoughts and feelings are good things. Affirming Liu Lao-lao in this way actually completely obliterates the influence that complex social life class relations may have on people, and closes the living people in real life in a vacuum tube, unable to see the multifaceted mutual influence that will inevitably occur between various classes and strata, especially the influence of the rulers' thoughts on the ruled in class society. Marx and Engels once said: "The ideas of the ruling class are in every epoch the ruling ideas, i.e., the class which is the ruling material force of society, is at the same time its ruling intellectual force." ("The German Ideology"). Therefore, such embellishment and emphasis seem to be defending the laboring people on the surface, but in fact they blur the class viewpoint of literary criticism.
    One of the important features of "Dream of the Red Chamber" is that the characters created by the author all have unique and lifelike personalities. Although the main object of "Dream of the Red Chamber" is the feudal aristocratic family, the personalities of the various members of this family are not just the characteristics of their class status. Precisely because of this, the author was able to create the immortal artistic images of Jia Baoyu and Lin Daiyu, two feudal rebels, in this feudal family, although some aspects of their personalities are inseparable from their class origin and living environment, and their anti-feudal thoughts and feelings are still products of a certain class society under certain conditions. Similarly, the personalities of the more active maids in the Grand View Garden are different from each other, the personalities of Jia Baoyu's four sisters are different from each other, and the personalities of You Erjie and You Sanjie are different from each other, and they cannot be explained by simple class origin and living environment, because their class origin and living environment are almost completely the same. The reason why the author created distinct and different typical personalities in them is precisely the result of the author's detailed, profound, and not superficial and formulaic observation of the truth of life, and giving it a typical expression. In the shaping of Liu Lao-lao's personality, the author's huge artistic power is also shown. Liu Lao-lao has a rich inner world and complex spiritual state. She is both sophisticated, smooth, good at adapting to the environment and pleasing people, and kind, simple, and humorous, which reflects her rich life experience and complex social relations. Her words and deeds in the book are completely true and reasonable for an elderly peasant woman who, under the social conditions at the time, wanted to go to an aristocratic family to seek relatives and seek relief. The author uses the activities of such a secondary character Liu Lao-lao with profound meaning as the opening of the main plot of the whole book. It is precisely because the author has sympathy for such ordinary people -- and having sympathy, of course, does not require the author to violate the principles of realism and fabricate her into an activist in the land reform or a female cadre in an agricultural production cooperative. Through Liu Lao-lao's eyes, the author reveals the disparity between rich and poor, reveals the luxurious and extravagant life of the feudal aristocratic class, and reveals the irrationality of feudal human relations.
    In short, when analyzing the artistic image of Liu Lao-lao, as with analyzing any artistic image in ancient and modern works, she should first be examined as a living person under specific social and historical conditions, and should not first be rigidly applied with a set of abstract concepts (such as genuine laboring people, real peasants, noble qualities of laboring women, etc.) and then extract some of her personality traits—or rather, still some abstract concepts, to cater to this conclusion.
    The greatest characteristic of literature and art is to reflect reality with concrete and perceptual images, and it directly reflects the entirety of people's lives. The people in artistic images are rich individuals. Combined with his life, habits, psychological state, mutual relations with others, etc., it reflects the multifaceted influence of the surrounding environment on him, reflecting what Marx called "the sum total of social relations." The characteristic of the richness of artistic images is precisely the main factor that makes it a highly generalized type. The examples that Marx and Engels gave us when evaluating the works of Greek classical writers, Shakespeare, Goethe, Shelley, Dickens, Balzac, Heine, and Ibsen, and the examples that Lenin gave us when evaluating the works of Belinsky, Chernyshevsky, Turgenev, Nekrasov, Saltykov-Shchedrin, Tolstoy, Chekhov, Gorky, Barbusse, Jack London, etc., all tell us that historical materialist and realistic literary criticism can only improve people's understanding of history, society, and life by making a comprehensive and objective analysis of the essence of artistic images. If artistic analysis is only mechanically and formalistically classifying literary images and even writers into class components and adding labels of social concepts, then it will not be needed by people.
    This vulgar sociological and mechanistic trend of criticism has formed a fairly common tendency in the field of classical literature research.
    Mechanists, based on the description of the artistic details of Qin Luofu's residence, clothing, and mulberry picking in "Mulberry on the Path," argue about whether she is a working woman or a young lady of the ruling class. Based on the same viewpoint, some people, based on the words "born small in the wild" or "poor and lowly has this daughter" in "Peacock Flies Southeast," conclude that Liu Lanzhi was born in an "oppressed class" "ordinary family," and her thoughts and feelings are also the "original form of the conscious consciousness of the oppressed class," which is "the most beautiful manifestation of the oppressed class under the historical conditions at the time." Some people also arbitrarily believe that she is a woman from a general wealthy family in the Han Dynasty based on the exaggerated description of Liu Lanzhi's talents and clothing. Some people even believe that Jiao Zhongqing's weak personality was formed because he was born into a bureaucratic family; his words to Liu Lanzhi before he committed suicide harmed Liu Lanzhi. It seems that this young man, who was also persecuted and sacrificed by feudal ethics, also participated in the murder of Liu Lanzhi! This absurd and groundless "analysis" not only ruins "Peacock Flies Southeast," but also ruins literary criticism. Similarly, the correct principle of emphasizing the attitude of literary works towards major social issues has also been distorted by people, to the extent that some people unilaterally regard the Yuan Dynasty zaju and Ming Dynasty novels, which have rich content and diverse artistic expressions, as simple records of phenomena such as usury and the rampant behavior of officials. Because they are not good at making a comprehensive evaluation of the entire work and the writer in terms of ideology and art, they are obsessed with extracting words and phrases from the work, and forcibly associate them as archival materials of the economic system at the time and proof of the writer's political position. Thus, the picture of the entire life of people in a specific society, the writer's comprehensive observation and criticism of life, and the perfect artistic images created by the writer are all cut into pieces of debris by this vulgar sociological and mechanistic small knife.
    This phenomenon of turning the class analysis of literature into a fixed frame and rigidly applying it everywhere is also manifested in the analysis of writers. For example, the so-called "small and medium landlord" theory in literary history research is a very typical example. They do not use the Marxist historical materialist viewpoint to analyze the contradictory phenomena in the artistic creation and thoughts of some writers in Chinese feudal society, but try to create a formula to solve it, that is, first determine a suitable class origin for the writer, so that his progressiveness and limitations can be easily explained. Thus, researchers put forward the small and medium landlord class as the class basis for the generation of these writers' thoughts, believing that the small and medium landlords were oppressed by the big landlords and bureaucrats, so they had a certain progressiveness; at the same time, they also oppressed and exploited the laboring people, so they had a certain backwardness and reactionariness. Starting from such a formula, writers who came from the small and medium landlord class naturally fit this formula; even writers who did not come from the small and medium landlord class, literary historians can eventually search out from him the basis of "objectively reflecting" the interests and demands of the small and medium landlords, or "objectively leading to" the small and medium landlords. Therefore, Tao Yuanming is a writer of the small and medium landlords, Bai Juyi and Yuan Zhen are writers of the small and medium landlords, and the "Ancient Prose Movement" of Han Yu and Liu Zongyuan also reflected the interests of the small and medium landlords. The concept of small and medium landlords has become the standard of literary criticism that transcends time and space. The result of mechanically explaining literary phenomena in this way is to distort the realistic tradition in Chinese classical literature into the literary tradition of the small and medium landlords, and the progressive tendency of Chinese classical literature is considered to be the reflection of the interests and demands of the small and medium landlords, while obliterating the role of the people. Another saying is the so-called "commoner feeling" of intellectuals. This saying believes that when the basic contradiction of feudal society—class struggle—is intensified, it is manifested through peasant uprisings, and when it has not reached the point of being intensified, it is embodied through the struggle of "scholars." And writers and works that can reflect reality and expose darkness reflect the struggle of "scholars." From this point of view, the "commoner feeling" of intellectuals has also become the driving force for the development of realistic literature.
    The common characteristic of these phenomena is that they want to find a simple formula of "panacea" to replace the class analysis of literature and replace the in-depth study of complex literary phenomena. Engels once said that if "the materialist method is not taken as a guiding thread for research into history, but as a ready-made formula, which is then cut and tailored to fit historical facts, then the materialist method is turned into its opposite." (Engels' letter to Ernst). Therefore, although the subjective wishes of these critics may be to learn to use Marxism, and although their criticisms emphasize "class struggle" and "class viewpoint" on the surface, they are actually anti-Marxist, and use vulgarized and distorted formulas to replace historical materialism.
    This vulgar sociological and mechanistic tendency in literary criticism has turned many complex problems that urgently need to be studied in the historical development of literature into simple formulas, and analyzed the rich realistic content, thoughts and feelings, and spiritual states embodied in the character images in literary and artistic works into several empty, rigid, and abstract social concepts, thinking that arbitrarily adding class components to writers and character images in works counts as Marxist literary criticism. This phenomenon that violates historical reality and obliterates the characteristics of literature and art has nothing in common with Marxism. As Engels said in his letter to Schmidt, Marxism resolutely opposes the idea of lazy people "using historical materialist cliches to quickly systematize their rather poor historical knowledge." Historical materialism requires detailed and careful study of the history of the economic base and the history of various superstructures themselves. In his "Introduction to the Critique of Political Economy," Marx, when discussing the relationship between art and the economic base, emphasized the decisive significance of specifically analyzing specific problems: "The difficulty lies only in the general formulation of these contradictions. As soon as they are specialized, they have already been explained." Taking ancient Greek art as an example, Marx said after analyzing its historical background: "However, the difficulty is not in understanding that Greek art and epics are related to a certain form of social development. The difficulty is, why can they still give us artistic satisfaction, and in some respects still be regarded as norms and unattainable models." Marx then pointed out that this is because the development of art has its own laws, just as the physiological development of people has its own laws, and this law cannot be replaced by the laws of social and economic development. Children develop into adults, but doesn't the innocence of children make adults happy? Similarly, the era of Greek art is gone forever, but it will always maintain a strong attraction. From Marx's method of analysis, it can be seen that only by seriously studying the general laws of social history and seriously studying the special laws of the development of literature and art can the complex phenomena in the field of literature and art be correctly explained. Therefore, although the author of this article is only a primary school student of Marxism, and his knowledge of Chinese history and literature and art is extremely limited, we feel it is necessary to point out that in order to correctly inherit and carry forward the excellent traditions in our country's literary heritage, in order to correctly evaluate our country's ancient and even modern literary creations, and in order to correctly carry out Marxist literary and artistic criticism, we must resolutely overcome the vulgar sociological tendencies in the field of literary research.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 关于文学研究中的庸俗社会学倾向——从“红楼梦”人物刘老老的讨论谈起——
李希凡　蓝翎
1956-02-29
第2版()
专栏：

    关于文学研究中的庸俗社会学倾向
    ——从“红楼梦”人物刘老老的讨论谈起——
    李希凡　蓝翎
    “光明日报”的“文学遗产”周刊上曾经发生过一次关于“红楼梦”中的刘老老这一人物的争论。争论的一方是提出问题的冯沅君同志的“谈刘老老”（第35期），另一方是批评这篇文章的周培桐、张葆莘、李大珂三同志的“刘老老是怎样的一个人”（第39期）。就争论本身来看，似乎给人一种印象：这两篇文章的意见，一篇是反面的，一篇是正面的，第二篇以正确的意见否定了第一篇，讨论就此结束。但是，这个小的争论却涉及到怎样对待古典文学遗产和一般文学作品的根本问题：究竟是现实主义的文学批评，还是庸俗社会学的、机械论的文学批评？作为一种倾向来看，关于刘老老的争论，是有代表性的。我们认为这是一个应该加以澄清的问题，谨就认识所及，大胆地提出一些意见来，希望得到冯沅君同志、周培桐、张葆莘、李大珂三同志和其他同志的指正。
      “谈刘老老”的作者把刘老老作为一定的社会概念的化身去考察。作者对于刘老老的出身作了如下三点推断：“（1）刘老老生长在农村，但不像是贫农。（2）刘老老曾到一些大官僚地主家里走动过，有丰富的社会经验，很世故。（3）在刘老老上场时，她已在女婿王狗儿家生活了很久，因而王家的环境也就成为她的生活环境。王家原先是个小官僚地主家庭，曾与大官僚地主们拉过关系，认过本家。她的女婿虽已降为农民，可是，他还是享过福的。由此看来，刘老老这个人物是比较复杂的；她当然也参加过劳动，但她和真正的农民中间还有距离。”“她本不是真正的”“正牌的劳动人民的形象”，“所以在她身上也找不出劳动人民正直、耿介的高贵品质”。
      “刘老老是怎样的一个人”一文是反对“谈刘老老”的简单的查历史划阶级成分的办法。但是，作者所根据的，也同样是
  “红楼梦”中描写刘老老生活和性格的个别细节，肯定她是“在封建制度下被压迫、被剥削、被侮辱、被损害的人”，“是一个自食其力的、贫穷困苦的，在晚年遭受饥寒威胁的劳动妇女。”于是，刘老老的一切都变成了“劳动妇女”的“高贵品质”。对于她的性格的复杂性，作者避而不谈。
    这两篇文章的结论完全相反。但是所采取的方法却是一致的，即企图用简单的社会概念，来代替现实主义的艺术分析，用阶级成分的划分，来取消艺术形象的丰富内容。
    由于这两篇文章的作者都企图用马克思主义的术语说明自己的观点，我们在本文中不得不对于究竟什么是马克思主义的文学观点这个问题多作一点常识性的说明，并且不得不多作一点引证，以便消除某些颇为流行的误会。这是希望读者原谅的。
    马克思主义认为文学艺术是上层建筑体系中的一种社会现象。文学艺术在阶级社会中具有阶级性的原理，是分析文学艺术发展过程的全部复杂性的根本原则。它根据作家对于生活现象和人物形象的创造性的描写，根据作家在这种描写中所表现的态度和评价，所流露的感情和愿望，对于作品的思想性进行科学的分析和判断。但是马克思主义的文学批评的任务远不以此为限。它还必须研究作品所表现的生活现象和人物形象的真实性和典型性，还必须研究作品的艺术技巧，研究作品的形式和内容互相一致的程度。只有对于这一切进行了综合的探讨，作品的社会价值和美学价值才能得到完满的阐明。马克思主义的文学批评决不丝毫忽视文学艺术的特点。相反，马克思主义确认：文学作为认识生活真实的手段，不同于社会科学，因为文学的任务是用感性的形象直接地表现人们生活中的具体的多方面的现象，而不是从一个特定方面研究生活中的抽象的规律，如同政治经济学研究人们的生产关系的发展规律那样。因此，人们的生活现象有多么丰富和复杂，文学的内容也就可以有多么丰富和复杂。文学着重描写具体的社会生活，描写人的内心世界和人的性格。大家知道，社会生活是非常复杂的，影响人的内心和性格的条件尤其是非常复杂的。同力求掩饰现实生活的反动作家相反，进步的作家在自己的作品中反映先进的阶级的观点的时候，不但不允许对于社会生活和人物心理作不真实的简单化的描写，而且力求最忠实地表现生活的全部复杂性和历史的具体性，表现每一个人物的性格特征。只有这样，作家才能正确地完成他对于人民群众的崇高的思想教育的使命。严格地重视事件和人物的每一细节的客观真实性，在生活真实的基础上创造和分析典型环境中的典型性格，正是使现实主义的创作方法和批评方法区别于任何公式化，概念化的方法的基本条件。马克思主义从来反对把复杂的事物简单化的庸俗唯物主义。恩格斯在讨论唯物史观的时候，曾经再三指出历史上一切因素的交互作用。他在1890年给布洛赫的著名的书信中，指出经济运动只是归根到底作为必然的东西透过无穷无尽的偶然情况向前进展；“否则把理论应用于任何历史时期，就会比演算一个最简单的一次方程式更为容易了。”恩格斯又说：“青年们有时过分看重经济方面，这有一部分是马克思和我自己应负其咎的。我们在反驳我们的论敌时，常常不得不强调那些受他们否认的主要原则，并且不是始终都能有充分时间、地点和机会来把其他参预交互作用的因素也加以应有的重视。但是，只要问题一关系到描述某个历史时期，即关系到实际的应用，则情况就有改变了，这里就不容有任何错误了。可惜人们往往以为，只要基本原理已被领会，并且还不一定领会得正确，就算已经充分理解了新理论并且已能够把它加以运用了。在这方面，我可以责备许多最新的‘马克思主义者’；须知，由于这点也曾产生出惊人的混乱……”
    回到现在的题目上来吧。在我们的文学研究者中，许多人怀着良好的意图，想用马克思主义的观点来分析作品，这种意图无疑是值得热烈欢迎的。但是有些人由于把马克思主义简单化庸俗化，以至把文学艺术具有阶级性的原理，当做简单的公式硬套到作品的每一段描写上去，硬套到每一个人物的每一项言谈举止上去，认为人物的性格特征就是简单的阶级标签。这难道不是一种“惊人的混乱”吗？“谈刘老老”一文就是这样的。作者先从对刘老老的阶级成分的推断规定了她的四个阶级性的特点，然后认为曹雪芹就是依据这样的观点去创造刘老老的形象的，仿佛曹雪芹在创造人物形象的过程中，所依据的不是现实生活，而是几条抽象的阶级特性的概念。用机械论者惯用的术语来说，凡是现实主义的作家，在刻画人物的性格特征的时候，都是紧紧地扣住了人物阶级出身的特点，凡与“阶级出身”无关的东西都被抛弃了。
    当然，愈是一个伟大的现实主义作家，愈是善于把他所观察到的一定社会集团的人的任何特质——阶级的、职业的以及其他的特征，表现得突出而明显。但是，这并不是说，作家把每个人的性格都表现成为他的阶级出身的某些固定的经济和政治的特点。阶级出身的种类是有限的。但是，每一个阶级处在不同的时代、不同的发展阶段、不同的阶级斗争形势中，都有不同的心理状态；并且每一个阶级按照成员的经济状况、政治状况和文化状况的不同，又都分为不同的阶层，这些阶层又有各自的精神面貌。同一个阶级和阶层出身的人们，又由于个人遭遇的不同，个人所受的物质上和精神上的影响不同，形成为各种不同类型的人物，形成为各种不同的性格特征。因此，在人物性格和他们的阶级出身的关系问题上，我们至少需要考虑到：（1）在阶级社会中的人们的性格必然有阶级性，不同阶级的人们的性格不会相同；（2）阶级性的具体内容和表现形式，是由具体的社会历史条件决定的，在不同的社会历史条件下，阶级性的具体内容和表现形式也不会完全一样；（3）同一个阶级出身的人们还分为不同的阶层，而每一个个人又有彼此不同的遭遇，因此，就是在相同的社会历史条件下，同一个阶级出身的人们的性格中的阶级性，仍然会有种种差别，并且这种阶级性不一定同阶级出身相一致；（4）人们的性格中除了有阶级性的特征，还有各种性质的个人的特征。性格是个人的影响他的行为的方式的各种心理特征的总和，它的发展在一定条件下可以受立场和世界观的指导，却决不能用立场和世界观来包括。人的性格是多方面的，它不是一个形容词的化身，而是许多形容词的多种多样的结合。正因为这样，一个阶级并不是只产生一种唯一的永远互相重复的典型的性格，而是产生无限丰富的典型的性格。正因为这样，真正的现实主义作家决不会写出公式主义的作品，决不会把人物性格当作某一种概念的传声筒，或者某一个形容词的“形象化”。人物的典型性并不排斥个性。恰恰相反，如恩格斯在给明娜·考茨基的信中所说，文学作品中的人物应该“每个人是典型，然而同时又是明确的个性，正如黑格尔老人所说的‘这一个’。”我们都知道，在实际生活里面，不但同一个阶级出身的人的个性千差万别，就是同一家庭的人乃至双生子的个性也不完全一致，甚至完全不一致。如果人物的性格仅仅等于阶级出身的特点，那么，研究人、认识人、解剖人的内心世界、培养人的性格还有什么意义呢？作家创造人物还说得上什么艰苦的创造性的劳动呢？文学作为认识生活真实的方法，又还有什么特殊的价值呢？因此，企图直接在一定阶级、阶层所共有的经济地位的特点和文学作品所表现出的属于这一阶级、阶层的具有不同个性的各式各样的人物形象之间，划上一个等号是错误的，这是违背现实生活的图式化的解剖，而不是文艺批评，不是马克思主义。
    “谈刘老老”一文所谓的抓住了阶级出身和生活环境的特点，只是作者凭空想像出来的几条抽象概念。如果这样的话，那么，不但曹雪芹所创造的刘老老，不可能是有丰富的思想感情的活的人物，只可能是几条概念的化身；而且作者所谓“正牌的劳动人民”，在曹雪芹时代就可能寥寥无几了。同样，“刘老老是怎样一个人”一文生硬地把刘老老性格中存在的复杂的精神状态简单化，仿佛刘老老就是劳动人民的最美好的典型形象，连她的落后的精神状态、思想情感也是好的东西。这样肯定刘老老，实际上是完全抹煞了复杂的社会生活阶级关系可能给予人们的影响，把现实生活中的活的人物封闭在真空管里，看不见各个阶级、阶层之间必然产生的多方面的相互影响，特别是在阶级社会里统治者的思想对被统治者的影响。马克思和恩格斯曾经说过：“在每个时代里，统治阶级底思想，就是统治的思想，这就是说本身代表着社会底统治的物质力量的阶级，同时就是这个社会底统治的精神力量。”（“德意志意识形态”）。因此，这样的粉饰和强调，表面上似乎是替劳动人民辩护，其实是模糊了文学批评的阶级观点。
    “红楼梦”重要的特色之一是作者所创造的人物都有独特的栩栩如生的性格。“红楼梦”描写的主要对象虽然是封建贵族家庭，但是这个家庭里的各个成员的性格，并不只是他们的阶级地位的特点。正因为如此，作者才有可能在这个封建家庭里创造出贾宝玉和林黛玉这两个封建叛徒的不朽的艺术形象，虽然他们的性格的某些方面，是同他们的阶级出身和生活环境分不开的，而且他们的反封建的思想感情，也仍然是一定的阶级社会在一定的条件下的产物。同样，大观园里的比较活跃的丫头们的性格彼此不同，贾宝玉的四个姊妹的性格彼此不同，尤二姐尤三姐的性格彼此不同，也不是从简单的阶级出身和生活环境所能解释的，因为她们的阶级出身和生活环境几乎是完全相同的。作者之所以在她们身上创造了鲜明的彼此不同的典型性格，正是作者详细地、深刻地而不是肤浅地、公式化地观察了生活的真实，并给以典型化的表现的结果。在刘老老性格的塑造上，也表现出作者的这种巨大的艺术力量。刘老老有丰富的内心世界和复杂的精神状态。她既是世故的，圆滑的，善于适应环境和博人欢心的，又是善良的，朴实的和幽默的，这正反映着她的丰富的生活经验和复杂的社会关系。她在书中的言谈举止，对于一个在当时的社会条件下，要到贵族家庭里去攀亲戚、求救济的老年农妇来说，完全是真实的，合乎情理的。作者含有深意地用刘老老这样一个次要人物的活动，作为全书主要情节的开场。正是由于作者在这样的普通老百姓身上寄着同情，——而寄着同情，当然并不要求作者违反现实主义的原则，把她捏造成为土地改革中的积极分子，或者农业生产合作社中的女干部。经过刘老老的眼睛，作者揭露了贫富贵贱的悬殊，揭露了封建贵族阶级奢华糜费的生活面貌，揭露了封建的人间关系的不合理。
    总之，在分析刘老老这个艺术形象的时候，同分析古今任何作品中的任何艺术形象一样，应该首先把她作为一个在特定的社会历史条件下的活的人来考察，而不应该首先用一套抽象的概念
  （例如正牌的劳动人民、真正的农民、劳动妇女的高贵品质等等）硬套在她身上，然后再抽取她的某些性格特点——不如说仍是一些抽象概念，去附会这个结论。
    文学艺术的最大特点是用具体的感性的形象来反映现实，它直接反映着人的生活的整体。艺术形象的人，是一个丰富的个体。结合他的生活、习惯、心理状态、同别人的相互关系等等，反映着周围环境给他的多方面的影响，反映着马克思所说的“社会关系的总和”。艺术形象丰富性的特征，正是使它成为高度概括性的典型的主要因素。马克思、恩格斯在评价希腊古典作家、莎士比亚、歌德、雪莱、迭更斯、巴尔札克、海涅、易卜生等人的作品的时候所给我们的范例，列宁在评价别林斯基、车尔尼雪夫斯基、屠格涅夫、涅克拉索夫、谢德林、托尔斯泰、契呵夫、高尔基、巴比塞、杰克伦敦等人的作品的时候所给我们的范例，都告诉了我们：历史唯物主义的、现实主义的文艺批评，只有对于艺术形象的实质做全面的客观的分析，才能提高人们对于历史、社会和人生的认识。如果艺术分析只是机械地形式主义地替文学形象以至替作家划阶级成分，加社会概念的标签，那它也就不会为人们所需要了。
    这种庸俗社会学的、机械论的批评风气在古典文学研究领域里，已经形成了具有相当普遍性的倾向。
    机械论者根据“陌上桑”对秦罗敷的住处、服装、采桑等艺术细节的描写，争论她究竟是劳动妇女，还是统治阶级的小姐？依据同样的观点，有些人根据“孔雀东南飞”里“生小出野里”或者“贫贱有此女”的话，就断定刘兰芝出身于“被压迫阶级”的“普通家庭”，她的思想感情也是“被压迫阶级自觉的意识的原始形态”，是“被压迫阶级在当时历史条件下最美的表现”。也有人根据对刘兰芝的才能、服饰的夸张描写，而武断地认为她是汉朝一般富贵人家的女子。有人甚至认为焦仲卿由于出身官僚家庭而形成了性格的软弱性；他殉情以前同刘兰芝说的话，害死了刘兰芝。似乎这个同样被封建礼教迫害而牺牲的青年，也参加了谋害刘兰芝的行动！这种荒谬的捕风捉影的“分析”，既糟踏了“孔雀东南飞”，也糟踏了文学批评。同样，重视文学作品对重大社会问题的态度这一个正确的原则，也被人们加以曲解，以至有些人对于有丰富内容和多种多样艺术表现形式的元杂剧和明代小说，片面地看成仅仅是高利贷、官吏横行等现象的简单记录。他们因为不善于对整个作品和作家作思想上和艺术上的全面的评价，就醉心于摘出作品中的只言片语，牵强附会地看成是当时经济制度的档案材料和作家政治立场的证明文件。于是，特定社会中的人们的整个生活的图画，作家对于生活的全面的观察和批评，作家所创造的完美的艺术形象，都被这种庸俗社会学的、机械论的小刀割成一片片的杂碎。
    这种把文学的阶级分析，变成一个固定的框子到处硬套的现象，也表现在对于作家的分析上。例如文学史研究中的所谓“中小地主”论，就是很典型的例子。他们不是用马克思主义的历史唯物主义的观点，去分析中国封建社会里一些作家艺术创作上和思想上的矛盾现象，而是企图制造一个公式去解决，那就是首先替作家确定一个恰当的阶级出身，这样就可以很方便地解释他的进步性和局限性了。于是，研究者便提出了中小地主阶层作为这些作家思想产生的阶级基础，认为中小地主上受大地主大官僚的压迫，所以有它一定的进步性；同时，它也压迫剥削劳动人民，所以有它一定的落后性和反动性，从这样一个公式出发，凡是出身于中小地主阶层的作家，当然符合了这个公式；即使不是出身于中小地主阶层的作家，文学史家们也终究能从他身上搜索出“客观上反映”中小地主的利益和要求，或者“客观上通向”中小地主的根据。因此，陶渊明是中小地主的作家，白居易、元稹是中小地主的作家，韩、柳的“古文运动”，也是反映了中小地主的利益。中小地主的概念，成了超越时间空间的文学批评的标准了。这样机械地解释文学现象的结果，就把中国古典文学中的现实主义传统歪曲成为中小地主的文学传统，中国古典文学的进步倾向被认为中小地主利益和要求的反映，而抹煞了人民群众的作用。另一种说法，是所谓知识分子的“布衣感”。这种说法认为封建社会的基本矛盾——阶级斗争在尖锐化的时候，就通过农民起义表现出来，在没有达到尖锐化的时候，就通过“士”的斗争体现出来。而能反映现实暴露黑暗的作家和作品，就是反映了“士”的斗争。这样看来，知识分子的“布衣感”，也变成现实主义文学发展的动力了。
    这种种现象共同的特点，都是想寻找一个“万灵药方”的简单公式，来代替文学的阶级分析，代替文学的复杂现象的深入研究。恩格斯曾经说过，如果“不把唯物论的方法当作研究历史的指导的线索，而把它当作现成的公式，将历史的事实宰割和剪裁得适合于他，那末唯物论的方法就变成它的反面了。”（恩格斯给恩史特的信）因此，尽管这些批评家的主观愿望可能是为着学习运用马克思主义，尽管他们的批评在表面上都强调着：“阶级斗争”、“阶级观点”，其实却是反马克思主义的，是用庸俗化的歪曲公式来代替历史唯物主义的。
    文学批评中这种庸俗社会学的、机械论的倾向，把文学历史发展中许多迫切需要研究的复杂问题，变成了简易的公式，把文学艺术作品中的人物形象所体现的丰富的现实内容、思想感情、精神状态，分析成几个空洞的刻板的抽象的社会概念，以为给作家和作品中的人物形象任意地加上阶级成分的标签，就算是马克思主义的文艺批评。这种违反历史实际和抹煞文学艺术特征的现象，是同马克思主义毫无共同之处的。像恩格斯在给施米特的信中所说，马克思主义断然反对“用历史唯物主义的套语来把自己相当贫乏的历史知识尽速构成系统”的懒汉的想法。历史唯物主义要求对经济基础的历史和各种上层建筑本身的历史作详细的认真的研究。马克思在“政治经济学批判导言”一文中，在讨论到艺术同经济基础的关系的时候，曾经着重指出具体地分析具体问题的决定意义：“困难只是在这些矛盾的一般表述中存在。它们只要一特殊化，它们就已经被说明了。”马克思以古代希腊艺术为例，在分析了它的历史背景以后说：“但是，困难还不在于理解希腊艺术和史诗与一定社会发展形态有关。困难是，它们何以仍能给我们以艺术的满足，并且就某方面说还是当作规范和高不可及的模本。”马克思接着指出，这是由于艺术发展有它自己的规律，如同人的生理发展有它自己的规律一样，这种规律不能用社会经济发展的规律去代替。儿童发展成为成人，但是儿童的天真难道不使成人愉快吗？同样，希腊艺术的时代是一去不复返了，它却永远保持着强烈的吸引力。从马克思的分析方法可以看出，只有既认真研究社会历史一般规律，同时又认真研究文学艺术发展的特殊规律，才能正确地解释文学艺术领域中的复杂现象。因此，尽管本文作者只是马克思主义的小学生，对于我国历史和文学艺术的知识都极其有限，但是我们觉得有必要指出：为了正确地继承和发扬我国文学遗产中优秀的传统，为了正确地评价我国古代以至现代的文学创作，为了正确地开展马克思主义的文艺批评，必须坚决地克服文学研究领域中的庸俗社会学倾向。
