Title: The Ugly Crowd of Rightists in Sichuan
Author: Ji Xichen
Date: 1957-08-30
Page: 2

By our reporter Ji Xichen

    The massive anti-Rightist struggle is unfolding in depth in all circles of Sichuan. In this life-and-death struggle, a battle of decisive significance is the siege of the Sichuan branch of the Zhang-Luo Alliance, headed by Pan Dakui.

    **Plotting to Establish an "Alliance Hegemony," Rightist Bosses Gather in Chengdu**

    Materials prove that the Zhang-Luo Alliance, in order to dominate Sichuan, known as the "birthplace," "base," and "major陣地" of the China Democratic League, had already made arrangements and preparations before liberation. After Liu Deng's army crossed the river, they believed that the situation of "North-South confrontation between the Kuomintang and the Communist Party" was a great opportunity. In order to achieve the goal of "separating the Southwest" in the "division of the world into three parts," Democratic League rightists Pan Dakui, Fan Puzhai, Zhang Zhihe, Zhang Songtao, etc., according to Zhang Bojun's instructions to expand their strength and engage in military speculation, in addition to luring a large number of secret society members (袍哥), landlords, bullies, and special agents into the League (for example, in fifteen counties in western Sichuan, more than half of the 668 people were landlords, secret society members, or special agents), they also recruited secret society members and bandits in northern Sichuan, southern Sichuan, and Xikang to establish reactionary local armed forces, conspiring to compete with the people for the world and attempting to resist the People's Liberation Army's advance into Sichuan and Xikang. Zhu Shizheng, a bandit leader who had two to three thousand secret society members and bandits and robbed the masses everywhere, was appointed by them as the chairman of the Democratic League's Xikang Provincial Committee. After liberation, these reactionary armed forces launched counter-revolutionary riots one after another. Wang Dequan, the head of the puppet security regiment personally developed by Zhang Zhihe, a member of the Democratic League Central Committee, rebelled first, followed by the bandit units of Zhu Shizheng and others. The five-person group established by Zhang Songtao in Neijiang became the core of the rebellion after liberation. Yao Wenzao, the chairman of the Democratic League in Neijiang, participated in organizing the "Anti-Communist National Salvation Army," which, under the leadership of bandits He Zhenhua, Deng Shuren, and others, attacked two district offices and seven or eight townships in the Neijiang area alone, killing 42 county, district, and township cadres, and sixty to seventy rural activists. The seals of the "Fourth Column of the Sichuan-Kang People's Self-Defense Army" and the "Headquarters of the Anti-Communist National Salvation Army" were also personally carved by this Democratic League chairman.

    In recent years, right-wing ambitious people have carried out a series of conspiratorial activities to further control the League affairs and seize the leadership of the Sichuan Democratic League. Luo Longji, who claimed to "only know how to fight to the end" in his life, secretly convened a gathering of backbone members of the Sichuan "invisible organization" in Beijing in the summer of 1951, instructing Pan Dakui, Zhang Songtao, and others to use the method of "organization against organization" to conspire to contact a group of old "League members" who were special agents and bullies who had been purged from the League in the Southwest, planning to exclude the leadership of left-wing members in the Southwest Democratic League. During the New Three-Anti Campaign, they created the "fast mail telegram" incident to take the opportunity to attack Chu Tunan and Tian Yiping, attempting to directly seize the leadership of the Southwest Democratic League. After the abolition of the Greater Administrative Regions, Luo Longji insisted that Pan Dakui stay in Sichuan to echo Li Dejia in Yunnan. In order to further consolidate and develop this "stronghold," Pan Dakui roped in Han Wenwei, Shu Jun, Li Kang, Hu Kelin, Feng Kexi, Wu Zhongping, Liu Kunnan, and others to form the core small group of the Sichuan "invisible organization." In order to make the Sichuan Provincial Committee of the Democratic League completely become a counter-Communist headquarters of right-wing elements, they also used despicable means such as buying over, winning over, and sowing discord to rope in people within the Democratic League provincial and municipal organs to form a small internal organ group within the Democratic League provincial and municipal committees, and launched attacks on the Party from both inside and outside whenever they had the opportunity.

    Pan Dakui, who was a Kuomintang member, served as a puppet provincial councilor, and had close ties with Zhang Qun, came from a landlord bully family with one to two thousand piculs of land. When his elder brother was detained and his bully younger brother and nephew were suppressed, he became even more hateful and dissatisfied with the Party, openly slandering land reform and the suppression of counter-revolutionaries. Although he had already become the vice chairman of the Sichuan Provincial Political Consultative Conference, the chairman of the Sichuan Provincial Committee of the Democratic League, and a National People's Congress representative, he was still not satisfied, believing that the "status of the Democratic League was not properly placed" and wanted to become a vice governor. After the Party put forward the policy of "long-term coexistence and mutual supervision" and "letting a hundred flowers bloom and a hundred schools of thought contend," they believed that a new situation had arrived, so they became even more rampant. In December of last year, when Luo Longji, Fan Puzhai, Ma Zhemin, Liu Wang Liming, Pan Dakui, Zhang Songtao, and other right-wing bosses gathered in Chengdu, Luo Longji directly instructed them on the strategic policy of comparing strength with the Party and "the Democratic League should monopolize intellectuals." They believed that as long as the Democratic League controlled senior intellectuals and there were more people with prestige in the League who held leadership positions, then the Party would have to pay attention to the League's strength. This would force the Party to compromise and retreat, and then replace it, starting with seizing the leadership of the cultural and educational circles, and then further overthrowing the proletarian dictatorship and establishing an "Alliance Hegemony."

    **Large-Scale Recruitment and Expansion of the Periphery to Strengthen Momentum**

    In order to realize this malicious plan, Pan Dakui and others adopted various methods to desperately expand the organization and strengthen the right-wing forces. In addition to openly clamoring that "Sichuan Democratic League will develop 4,000 people this year," requiring "uninterrupted large-scale development" in seven aspects, and carrying out a "socialist competition" for developing the organization, and expanding the establishment of grass-roots organizations in 58 counties, they also pulled a large number of historical counter-revolutionaries and those dissatisfied with the Party into the League. After the rectification began, they advocated "joining the League on the front line." Shu Jun developed more than 140 people in Chongqing in forty days. Under the policy of "accepting all comers," Nie Picheng of the Democratic League Yuechi County Committee openly recruited people in the teahouse in Guang'an City, asking everyone whether they wanted to join the League.

    Establishing various peripheral "strongholds" around the branch was an important tactical means for the Sichuan Democratic League right-wingers to expand their strength and consolidate their positions. This kind of "stronghold" included the "Xin Society" small group organized by Wang Zimei, a Democratic League member and right-wing element in the art world in Chongqing, and the "Women's Thrift Branch" secretly organized by Liu Wang Liming, a female general of the Zhang-Luo Alliance, in Chengdu. The chairman of this branch was Yue Baoqi, a former puppet National Assembly representative and women's committee member of the Kuomintang Sichuan Provincial Party Department. Sixteen of the other eighteen members of the board of directors were counter-revolutionaries, reactionary landlords, and family members of counter-revolutionaries. Many of the 147 new members developed in a few days were "friends in adversity" who had been sentenced to reform through labor by the government after liberation. In addition, the "peripheral organizations" also included the "Hundred Flowers Poetry Society," which claimed to cultivate cadres for the Democratic League. This "poetry society," which was nominally engaged in the study of the motherland's classical literary heritage, had more than 250 members in Chengdu, Chongqing, Beijing, Shanghai, and Wuhan. Each department in the society had a liaison officer, and meetings were held once a week. The details of the meetings were "kept secret" and not allowed to be spread. Although they were called a "poetry society," there were many members in the society who could not write poetry. The "poetry society" had a thought-provoking purpose: "to unite all intellectuals whom the Party has not yet united." That is to say, to pull all those who were dissatisfied with the Party into this small group. As a result, of the twenty-one committee members of the "poetry society," preliminary investigations showed that eleven were backbone members of special agents and reactionary parties and groups. The counter-revolutionary Jiang Wenfang served as the secretary and liaison officer of the general affairs department of the "poetry society." The chairman of the "poetry society," Mu Jibo, was a poisonous snake who had consistently engaged in anti-Communist activities. Because he was good at spreading rumors, deceiving people, and winning over old intellectuals, he was particularly favored by Pan Dakui. Pan Dakui first pulled him into the League without going through organizational procedures, and then immediately supported him to come forward to organize the "Hundred Flowers Poetry Society." The purpose was to use Mu Jibo's hand to raise another black flag of recruitment on the periphery of the Sichuan branch of the Zhang-Luo Alliance.

    **Spreading Black Lines Pervasively, Releasing Poisonous Fire in All Directions**

    In the Sichuan branch, Pan Dakui adopted various methods to transmit the spark and bury black lines pervasively. In addition to using their personal legal identities to contact each other up, down, left, and right, and colluding with each other; holding secret gatherings in the form of tea parties, "round robin meetings," banquets, and dinners; conducting conversations through correspondence and individual contact; they also used various meetings and training courses to arrange work and train backbone members, spreading their reactionary program in grass-roots organizations. In August of last year, Pan Dakui specially held a "Democratic League In-Service Cadre Training Class" to train grass-roots backbone members of the Democratic League in Nanchong, Zigong, Leshan, Ya'an, Suining, Santai, and other places to open "branches" of the Zhang-Luo Alliance in small and medium-sized cities. During the training, right-wing element Fei Xiaotong personally conveyed to them the program of the Zhang-Luo Alliance to incite intellectuals to attack the Party. Pan Dakui, Zhao Yiming, and others also organized them to collect materials at the Sichuan Medical College and exchange "pilot" experiences at the Democratic League district branches in Chengdu.

    In order to usurp the leadership of institutions of higher learning, Pan Dakui personally took the field, used the Democratic League organization, and used his alumni and colleague relationships at Tsinghua University, study in the United States, and Southwest Associated University to collect materials everywhere. He roped in right-wing professors such as Liu Zuyi, Zhang Yongyan, Zhang Zehou, Kang Zhenhuang, Zhang Mosheng, and Yang Zhinong to spread anti-Party remarks, clamoring that there were contradictions between the Party and intellectuals, "laymen cannot lead experts," slandering previous movements, claiming that "not only should the living be rehabilitated, but also the dead," and emphasizing that the Party Central Committee and the Sichuan Provincial Party Committee should be bombarded during the blooming and contending. At the same time, they took the lead in igniting fires in more than ten universities and colleges in Chengdu, attempting to create chaos, take the opportunity to knock the Communist Party off the "stage," and then have the Democratic League clean up the mess and overthrow the people's democratic dictatorship. To this end, Pan Dakui not only directed his lackeys to besiege the Sichuan University of Finance and Economics Party Committee from three directions, but also attempted to organize "united front groups" in the Chengdu Institute of Geological Exploration, Sichuan Normal College, and other schools to drive the Communist Party out of the schools, viciously calling on students to "ignite the flame of the May Fourth Movement" and burn the Communist Party to death in the "rectification." Right-wing elements of the Democratic League at the Chengdu Institute of Technology even openly drafted a "blacklist" in preparation for taking over the positions of the current dean, provost, and department chairmen.

    In Chongqing, in order to unify the right-wing forces, Pan Dakui first merged the small groups of Shu Jun, Li Kang, and Feng Kexi, Hu Kelin of the Democratic League Municipal Committee into one. Then, according to Fei Xiaotong's instructions, Shu Jun and Li Kang organized a "think tank" under this group, contacting Li Chengyuan, Jiang Qingnan, Ye Qianji, and others, formulated a ten-point "instruction" for setting fires, and convened a mobilization meeting of more than 1,000 people, mobilizing "League members to stand on the front line of the struggle," instigating League members to "settle accounts," "pour out bitterness," and "accuse" the Party, taking the lead in setting fires, and requiring League organizations to do "removing hats," "sending reinforcements," "relieving siege," and "insurance" work for counter-revolutionaries, and using the tactic of "layer upon layer rebuttal, layer upon layer pursuit" to make the "other party" "speechless."

    Their clutches also extended to many small and medium-sized cities, grabbing many Democratic League grass-roots organizations and turning them into bases for blowing wind and fanning flames. Zhao Yiming and Zhang Songtao, two major generals under Pan Dakui, secretly convened grass-roots responsible persons of Suining, Nanchong, Xichang, Luzhou, and Santai cities and counties, Liu Shiyi, Huang Dacheng, Zhang Jianbo, and others, in May to study "new situations and new tasks," not only specifically stipulated the task of setting fires, but also stipulated that "disciplinary action will be taken if the task is not completed." Zhao Yiming said to people: "The democratic parties must ruin a few things before they can be valued." Therefore, this deputy secretary-general of the Democratic League Provincial Committee personally went to Ya'an to conduct a "pilot project" and incited students of the Ya'an Agricultural College to ignite a fire by using the issue of school relocation. Xing Shitong, a veteran anti-Communist expert who served as a puppet county magistrate and puppet protection group leader before liberation and is now the deputy director of the Democratic League in Luzhou, infiltrated the opera world and tried his best to prevent artists from joining the Party, saying, "What are you joining the Party for? Joining the Democratic League is the backbone." He asked Yang Songling to take back his application to join the Party and said: "It is more difficult now than being in the eighteenth level of hell," inciting the grass roots to light the fire.

    **Arsonists Reveal Their True Colors, Small Cliques Disintegrate**

    Many of these arsonists started by opposing communism. Fan Puzhai, the internal military advisor of the Zhang-Luo Alliance and a Democratic League Central Committee member who had consistently plotted conspiracies in Sichuan, wrote "Outside Voices" in the Guangming Daily on June 5, slandering the Communist Party for losing popular support, and slandered "The State Council is the source of bureaucracy" at a symposium of the State Council. His hatred for the Communist Party was due to the fact that he had long been an anti-Communist expert. In the past, he was promoted from an ordinary patrolman of a puppet police station to the chief of staff (secretary-general) of the puppet Gansu Provincial Chairman Zhu Shaoliang and the puppet Pingliang Commissioner who blocked the Red Army from going north because of his strong anti-communism. During the War of Resistance Against Japan, he and the Trotskyite Ye Qing were both political instructors of the puppet Sichuan Provincial Training Corps. Another general of the Zhang-Luo Alliance, Zhao Yiming, served as the central group leader of the Kuomintang special agent Fuxing Society, developing and contacting twenty to thirty special agents to disrupt the student movement. Later, when he mixed into the Democratic League and served as the Minister of Organization of the Democratic League in Chongqing, the entire list of Chongqing League members fell into the hands of the special agents on the eve of the Chongqing "June 1" Great Arrest in 1947. After the League members were arrested and forced to hide, Zhao Yiming remained unscathed and worked as a secretary and commissioner in the "Sichuan-Kang Xingye Company" in Chongqing, living in a small western-style house and riding in a private chartered car. Zhang Zehou, a member of the Chengdu Municipal Committee of the Democratic League who behaved particularly viciously during the blooming and contending, fabricated history in the past, pretended to be progressive, and always wore the guise of a "underground hero" of Zhazidong to deceive young people. In fact, he was a bloodstained executioner. This secret society elder (袍哥大爺), who was introduced into the Kuomintang special agent organization by Chen Lifu and Pan Gongzhan and served as a puppet town mayor, betrayed the Communist Party member Li Yingcai and his own younger brother, Communist Party member Zhang Zehao, in prison in 1948 when he was arrested on political suspicion. When many revolutionary martyrs were in distress, he wrote "Suppression of Chaos Song" and "Wise Leader" to praise Chiang Kai-shek.

    The rampant attacks of the right-wing arsonists once made the sky of the "Land of Abundance" full of flames and smoke, but the tide of the people's anti-Rightist struggle quickly extinguished this poisonous flame. The working class of Chongqing and Chengdu, with a high degree of awareness, was the first to rise up in mid-June to counterattack the right-wingers. Then, schools, organs, small and medium-sized cities, and the vast countryside also launched large-scale counterattacks against the right-wingers. With the deepening and development of the struggle, the entire front of the Sichuan branch of the Zhang-Luo Alliance has rapidly disintegrated. After weeding and disinfection, the rich and beautiful land will have even more abundant harvests!



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 四川的右派群丑
纪希晨
1957-08-30
第2版()
专栏：

    四川的右派群丑
    本报记者　纪希晨
    声势浩大的反右派斗争，正在四川各界深入开展着。在这一生死的斗争里，具有决定意义的一次战斗，是对于以潘大逵为首的章罗联盟四川分店的围攻。
    久谋建立“盟天下”，右派头目聚成都
    材料证明，章罗联盟为独霸被称为民盟“发祥地”、“根据地”和“大阵地”的四川，早在解放前就已经作了布署和准备。刘邓大军渡河以后，他们认为“国共南北对峙”局面下，正好大有可为，为达到在“三分天下”中“割据西南”的目的，民盟右派分子潘大逵、范朴斋、张志和、张松涛等，根据章伯钧扩充实力搞军事投机的指示，除拉拢大批袍哥（即哥老会）地主恶霸特务入盟（如川西十五个县六百六十八人中，有一半以上是地主袍哥特务），同时还在川北、川南、西康等地收编袍哥、土匪，建立反动地方武装，阴谋与人民争天下，企图抗拒解放军向川康进军。拥有两三千多袍哥土匪，到处抢劫群众的土匪头子朱世正，被他们委任为民盟西康省委的主任委员。解放后，这些反动武装纷纷发动反革命暴乱。民盟中央委员张志和亲自发展的伪保安团长王德全首先叛乱之后，随着朱世正等匪部也都参加了叛乱。张松涛在内江成立的五人小组，解放后成为叛乱的核心。内江民盟主任委员尧文藻参预组织的“反共救国军”，在匪首何振华、邓树人等领导下，仅在内江地区就先后攻打了两个区公所和七八个乡镇，残杀县区乡干部四十二人，农村积极分子六七十人。“川康人民自卫军第四纵队”、“反共救国军总司令部”的图章，也都是这位民盟主任委员亲自刻造的。
    几年来，右派野心家为进一步把持盟务，夺取四川民盟的领导权，进行了一系列的阴谋活动。自称一生“唯知斗争到底”的罗隆基，远在1951年夏天，就在北京秘密召开了四川“无形组织”骨干分子聚会，指示潘大逵、张松涛等，采用以“组织对组织”的方法，阴谋联络一批在西南被清洗出盟的特务恶霸的老“盟员”，策划排斥西南民盟中左派分子的领导。新三反中又制造“快邮代电”事件，借机打击楚图南、田一平，企图直接夺取西南民盟的领导权。大区撤销后，罗隆基坚持要潘大逵留在四川，与云南李德嘉互相呼应。潘大逵为进一步巩固发展这个“据点”，拉拢韩文畦、舒军、李康、胡克林、冯克熙、吴仲坪、刘坤南等，组成四川“无形组织”的核心小集团。他们为使民盟四川省委完全变成右派分子的反共司令部，同时还用收买笼络挑拨等卑鄙手段，在民盟省市机关内部拉拢人组成民盟省市委内部机关小集团，一有机会就内外夹攻向党进攻。
    身为国民党员，当过伪省参议员，和张群有着密切交往的潘大逵，家庭是个有一千几百石田的地主恶霸，当他的哥哥被管押、恶霸弟弟和侄子遭到镇压时，对党就更为仇恨和不满，公然污蔑土改和肃反。他虽然已经当了四川省政协副主席，民盟四川省委主任委员和全国人民代表，但是仍不满足，认为“民盟地位没有摆端正”，活动要当副省长。党提出“长期共存，互相监督”、“百花齐放，百家争鸣”方针后，他们认为新形势已经到来，于是，就更加猖狂的活动起来。去年12月当罗隆基、范朴斋、马哲民、刘王立明、潘大逵、张松涛等，各路右派头目会师成都时，罗隆基当面向他们指示了和党较比力量、“民盟要垄断知识分子”的战略方针。他们认为只要把高级知识分子掌握在民盟手中，盟内有声望的人多了，担任领导工作的多了，那时党就不能不重视盟的力量。这样迫使党迁就退却，后再取而代之，从夺取文教界的领导权入手，再进一步推翻无产阶级专政，建立起“盟天下”来。
    大发展招兵买马，搞外围壮大声势
    为着实现这个恶毒的计划，潘大逵等采用各种方法，拼命扩大组织，壮大右派力量。他们除公开叫嚣“今年四川民盟要发展四千人”，要求在七个方面“川流不息大发展”，开展发展组织的“社会主义竞赛”，要在五十八个县扩大建立基层组织外，还把大批历史上的反革命分子和对党不满分子拉进盟去。整风开始后，他们提倡“火线入盟”，舒军在重庆四十天之内竟发展了一百四十多人。在“来者不拒”的方针下，民盟岳池县委聂丕成竟在广安城的茶馆内，公开拉人，逢人便问入不入盟。
    在分店周围建立各种外围“据点”，是四川民盟右派扩充实力，巩固阵地的重要战术手段。这种“据点”，在重庆有民盟盟员、美术界右派分子汪子美组织的“辛社”小集团，在成都有章罗联盟女将刘王立明偷偷摸摸组织的“妇女节制分会”。这个分会的会长是原伪国大代表、国民党四川省党部妇女委员岳宝琪，理事会中的其他十八个成员中，有十六个是反革命分子、反动地主和反革命家属。几天中新发展的一百四十七个会员，有很多都是解放后被政府判刑劳改的“患难朋友”。此外，“外围组织”中还有自称为民盟培养干部的“百花诗社”。这个以研究祖国古典文学遗产为名的“诗社”，在成都、重庆、北京、上海、武汉拥有二百五十多个社员。社内各部门中设有联络员，每周开会一次，会议情况则“保守秘密”，不准外传。他们虽名“诗社”，但社内却有很多不会做诗的成员，“诗社”有一个耐人寻味的宗旨，是“要团结一切党还没有团结的知识分子”。就是说，要把一切对党不满的分子，都拉进这个小集团来，以致“诗社”的二十一个社务委员中，初步查明就有十一人是特务分子和反动党团的骨干。反革命分子姜文芳，担任着“诗社”秘书和总务部的联络大员。“诗社”主席穆济波则是一个一贯进行反共勾当的毒蛇。因为他善于招谣撞骗、拉拢旧知识分子，所以就特别博得潘大逵的青睐。潘大逵先是不经组织手续将他拉进盟内，随后马上支持他出面组织起“百花诗社”。目的是想借穆济波的手，在章罗联盟四川分店的外围，再插起一杆招兵买马的黑旗来。
    撒黑线无孔不入，放毒火全面进攻
    在四川分店中，潘大逵采用各种活动方法，无空不入地传递火种，埋设黑线。他们除以个人合法身份，分工与上下左右联系，相互串通；以茶会、“转转会”、请客、聚餐形式，举行秘密集会；用书信往返，个别接触进行交谈；同时，还通过各种会议和训练班，布置工作，训练骨干，把他们的反动纲领在基层组织中传布开来。去年8月，潘大逵为训练爪牙，特别举办了“民盟在职干部训练班”，训练南充、自贡、乐山、雅安、遂宁、三台等地的民盟基层骨干，到中小城市开设章罗联盟“支店”。受训期间，右派分子费孝通亲自向他们传达了章罗联盟煽动知识分子向党进攻的纲领，潘大逵、赵一明等并组织他们到四川医学院收集材料，到成都民盟各区分部交流“试点”经验。
    为篡夺高等学校领导权，潘大逵亲自出马，利用民盟组织，并通过他清华、留美和西南联大等同学同事关系，到处收集材料。拉拢刘祖彝、张永言、张泽厚、康振黄、张默生、杨志农等右派教授，散布反党言论，叫嚣党和知识分子有矛盾，“外行不能领导内行”，诬蔑历次运动，扬言“不但要为活人平反，也要为死人平反”，强调鸣放中要向党中央和四川省委开炮。同时他们并带头在成都十多个大专学校中点火，企图造成乱子，趁机把共产党打下“擂台”，然后由民盟来收拾残局，推翻人民民主专政。为此，潘大逵不仅指使他的喽啰三路围攻四川财经学院党委，还企图在成都勘探学院、四川师范学院等组织“统战小组”，把共产党撵出学校，恶毒地号召同学们“燃起五四的火焰”，把共产党烧死在“整风”里面。成都工学院民盟右派分子，还公然拟好“黑名单”，准备接替现任的院长、教务长、系主任的职务。
    在重庆，潘大逵为统一右派力量，首先将民盟市委舒军、李康和冯克熙、胡克林两个小集团合而为一，然后舒军、李康根据费孝通的指示，又在这个集团下面，联络李澄源、蒋青楠、叶谦吉等组织了一个“智囊团”，拟定了十点放火“指示”，召开一千多人的动员大会，动员“盟员站在斗争的最前线”，唆使盟员向党“清算”、“倒苦水”、“控告”，带头点火，要盟组织给反革命分子做“摘帽子”、“发救兵”、“解围”和“保险”工作，并用“层层驳，层层追”的战术，把“对方”搞到“无话可说”。
    他们的魔掌还伸进不少中小城市，把不少民盟基层组织抓过来，变成他们吹风煽火的基点。潘大逵手下的两员大将赵一明和张松涛，在5月间召集遂宁、南充、西昌、泸州、三台市县基层负责人刘石夷、黄大成、张剑波等秘密集会，研究“新形势新任务”，不仅具体规定放火任务，而且还规定“如完不成任务，要受纪律处分”。赵一明对人说：“民主党派非要整烂几件事情，才能受到重视。”于是，这位民盟省委副秘书长就亲自到雅安进行“试点”，同时，煽动雅安农学院学生借迁校问题，燃起一股烈火。老牌反共专家、解放前当过伪县长、伪保护团团长，现任民盟泸州副主任委员邢世同，并钻进戏曲界，千方百计阻止艺人入党，说“你们入党干啥，入了民盟就是骨干”，叫杨松龄把交了的入党申请书要了回来，并说：“现在比在十八层地狱里还难过”，煽动基层点起火来。
    纵火犯原形毕露，小集团土崩瓦解
    这些纵火犯，许多都是靠反共起家的。章罗联盟的内幕军师、一贯在四川策划阴谋活动的民盟中委范朴斋，6月5日他在光明日报上写“会外之音”，诬蔑共产党失去人心，在国务院座谈会诬蔑“国务院是官僚主义的根源”。他对共产党如此仇恨，是因他老早就是一个反共专家。他从前曾因反共有力，从一个伪警察局的普通巡官，被伪甘肃省主席朱绍良提拔为幕僚长（秘书长）和拦阻红军北上的伪平凉专员，抗战期间则与托匪叶青同为伪四川省训团的政治教官。章罗联盟的另一战将赵一明，当过国民党特务复兴社的中心小组长，发展联络二、三十个特务，破坏学生运动。后来，当他混入民盟，在重庆担任民盟组织部长时，1947年重庆“六一”大逮捕前夕，重庆盟员的全部名单落入特务手中。盟员纷纷被捕和被迫隐藏后，赵一明却反而安然无恙地在重庆“川康兴业公司”，作了住小洋房、坐私包车的秘书专员。鸣放中表现特别凶恶的民盟成都市委委员张泽厚，过去捏造历史，伪装进步，一向披着渣滓洞“地下英雄”外衣，欺骗青年，实际上则是一个手染鲜血的刽子手。这个经陈立夫、潘公展介绍入国民党特务组织，当过伪镇长的袍哥大爷，1948年因政治嫌疑被捕时，在狱中出卖了共产党员李英才，和他的亲弟弟共产党员张泽浩。当许多革命烈士就难时，他却写“戡乱歌”、“圣明的领袖”，为蒋介石歌功颂德。
    右派纵火犯的猖狂进攻，虽曾一度把“天府之国”的上空搞得烽火弥漫，狼烟冲天，但是，人民反右派斗争的浪潮，很快扑灭了这股毒焰。有着高度觉悟的重庆、成都的工人阶级，6月中旬最先起来向右派进行反击，接着，学校、机关、中小城市和广大农村，也都大张旗鼓地向右派展开了反击。随着斗争的日益深入和发展，章罗联盟四川分店的全部阵线，已经迅速土崩瓦解。富饶美丽的大地，经过锄草消毒，将会有更丰硕的收获！
