Title: The Unfortunate "Prophet"
Author:
Date: 1966-10-29
Edition: 4

The "prophet" of the "three freedoms and one contract" has been exposed. It has been revealed that the so-called "three freedoms and one contract" is a tool for the landlords and rich peasants to restore their old positions and exploit the poor and lower-middle peasants. The "prophet" who advocated for this has been thoroughly criticized and repudiated by the masses.

The "three freedoms and one contract" refers to the freedom to rent land, the freedom to lend money, the freedom to employ labor, and the contract system. This is a reactionary program that aims to restore the old society of exploitation and oppression. The "prophet" who promoted this program has been exposed as a tool of the class enemy, and his evil intentions have been thoroughly criticized and repudiated by the masses.

The masses have seen through the tricks of the "prophet" and have firmly rejected his reactionary program. They have declared that they will never allow the landlords and rich peasants to restore their old positions and exploit the poor and lower-middle peasants. The masses have vowed to continue to fight for the interests of the poor and lower-middle peasants and to build a new society of socialism and communism.

The "prophet" has been thoroughly criticized and repudiated by the masses, and his reactionary program has been completely exposed. The masses have declared that they will never allow the class enemy to restore their old positions and exploit the poor and lower-middle peasants. The masses have vowed to continue to fight for the interests of the poor and lower-middle peasants and to build a new society of socialism and communism.


<hr /> 

Original: 


### 倒霉的“预言家”（图片）

1966-10-29
第4版()
专栏：

    倒霉的“预言家”
