### US Government Bans Export of Aviation Fuel to Various Countries, Excluding Western Hemisphere; Japan Most Affected, Perceiving US Move as Anti-Japanese

Washington – The US government has recently banned the export of aviation fuel to various countries, except for those in the Western Hemisphere. However, American airlines operating outside the Western Hemisphere will still be permitted to obtain aviation fuel. President Roosevelt's secretary, Mr. Early, told reporters that the Export Control Commissioner, Mr. Maxwell, approved of this measure, and the President then authorized it. As for whether the United States will continue to ship gasoline to Britain, he said he did not know. The US authorities, having permitted American companies to obtain gasoline, will cooperate with Pan American Airways and others operating air services to Portugal and the Pacific routes. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Washington – Although the US government's ban on aviation fuel exports applies to all countries outside the Western Hemisphere, Japan is the most affected. This is because the European Axis powers are blockaded by Britain and have long been unable to import American oil. Whether this US action is related to the continued oppression and threats faced by Americans in China is unknown, but the announcement of the ban at this time is noteworthy. Britain's supply is unaffected because Canada can still purchase fuel and transfer its existing aviation fuel to Britain. Simultaneously, Britain can also obtain new supplies from Venezuela and other places in Central and South America. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Washington – A government official told the United Press reporter yesterday that both China and Japan are heavily reliant on American aviation gasoline. However, the impact of President Roosevelt's embargo order is lighter on China than on Japan. Although China's main supply route was blocked after the British closed the Burma Road, Japan, in addition to the United States, relies on the Dutch East Indies and Venezuela for aviation gasoline. However, the latter two can only supply Japan with a small amount of gasoline. It is said that Japan may use aviation gasoline of lower quality than that used by the United States and European countries, as the competition Japanese aircraft face from Chinese aircraft is not very severe. The US Army Department has insisted on using 87 to 100 octane gasoline. Japanese aircraft may use 70 to 75 octane gasoline. According to statistics released by the US Department of Commerce, Japan obtained 5,048 barrels of aviation fuel in June. In the first six months of this year, non-American countries purchased a total of 1,213,662 barrels of aviation gasoline from the United States, of which Japan purchased 105,662 barrels. In June, Japan ranked fifth among customers purchasing US aviation gasoline, behind France, Britain, South Africa, and British East Africa. In the first six months of this year, Japan ranked third in purchasing US aviation fuel, behind only France and Britain. Last June and the first six months of last year, Japan purchased 24,221 barrels and 341,286 barrels of aviation gasoline from the United States, respectively. (United Press dispatch, 1st)

London – A Reuters diplomatic correspondent stated that the US ban on aviation fuel exports outside the Western Hemisphere is viewed in authoritative circles in London as a natural step in America's policy of defense against aggression. Maintaining an adequate supply of certain essential commodities is a necessary measure of self-defense. Regarding the impact on Britain, industrial circles here said that Britain can import fuel from all over the world, which is a testament to Britain's great strength. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Hong Kong – A Japanese naval spokesman in Tokyo, when interviewed by reporters today, commented on the US ban on exporting aviation gasoline to countries outside the Americas, stating that regardless of the US pretext, this move can be seen as anti-Japanese or an expression of economic pressure on Japan. The embargo is an unfriendly act towards Japan. If the United States continues along this path, then the United States may have to fully consider the international repercussions that will arise. An American reporter then said that the US move was aimed at the warring countries in Europe. The spokesman replied that the US was aimed at Germany and Italy, and that this method achieved two goals at once. When asked whether the US move would have any impact on Japanese military operations, the spokesman hesitated for a moment and replied, "We..." (Dispatch, 1st)

Tokyo – Japanese Navy Ministry spokesman Colonel Okuma recently stated that President Roosevelt's ban on the export of aviation gasoline to countries outside the Western Hemisphere is undoubtedly an anti-Japanese action. Regardless of the US pretext, this move is undoubtedly an anti-Japanese action, intended to exert economic pressure on Japan, and is an extremely unfriendly anti-Japanese act. When asked whether the US move was aimed at Germany and Italy, and why it should be considered anti-Japanese, Okuma replied, "Roosevelt probably wants to kill two birds with one stone." (Universal News Agency dispatch, 1st)

### Japanese Army Suffers Losses on Hong Kong-Guangdong Border

English and Guangdong Eastern Chinese troops attacked the Japanese in Shenzhen at 3 PM on the 24th. The Japanese stubbornly resisted in Caijiayuan at 5 PM. A Japanese unit counterattacked Shawan Danjiatou, attempting to contain the attack, but was intercepted by the Chinese. The Japanese suffered heavy casualties and retreated. Simultaneously, another Chinese unit attacked the Japanese near Shatoujiao, killing many Japanese. The remaining Japanese, unable to withstand the attack, retreated to the Lianmatang area on the Sino-British border. The Chinese are currently pursuing and annihilating them. (Dispatch, 31st)

### Ma Junwu Passes Away in Guilin

Guilin – Mr. Ma Junwu, President of Guangxi University, passed away at the university at 6 PM on the 1st due to illness. He had a stomach ailment, and since becoming President of Guangxi University, he had worked tirelessly to reorganize and develop the school. In the last semester, his old illness relapsed, and after several treatments, he did not recover. He continued to work despite his illness and did not take a break. This time, his illness worsened, and doctors were unable to cure him, leading to his death. Mr. Ma was a native of Guilin, 60 years old. He studied in Germany and obtained a doctorate in engineering. (Dispatch, 1st)

### Sun Ke and Zhu Jiahua Will Not Go to Soviet Union and Germany

Chongqing – It is claimed here that Sun Ke, President of the Legislative Yuan, will not go to the Soviet Union, and Zhu Jiahua, Minister of Organization, will not go to Germany. It is rumored that no Chinese delegation will be sent to the Soviet Union. Recently, it was reported in Hong Kong that the Chongqing government had decided to send special delegations to Germany and the Soviet Union separately, and that Zhu Jiahua had been appointed as the special envoy to Germany, and Sun Ke as the leader of the delegation to the Soviet Union. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Chinese Government Commends American Advisors

Chongqing – Two American road experts, one named Brazil and one named Pade, who both served as advisors to the Ministry of Communications for more than a year, have recently left Chongqing and returned to the United States. The Chinese government has awarded medals to these two experts to show its commendation. (United Press dispatch, 1st)

### Zhang Xueliang Still in Guiyang

Chongqing – Regarding the news reported by the Southeast Daily that Zhang Xueliang was detained in Guiyang by order of Chairman Chiang, it is claimed here that before the outbreak of the Sino-Japanese war, Zhang stayed in Fenghua. However, after the Japanese army landed in Hangzhou Bay, Zhang moved to a place near Guiyang, and has not left since then. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Guizhou Branch of Journalists Association Established Yesterday

Guiyang – The Guizhou branch of the Chinese Youth Journalists Association was established today. Wang Yaming, etc. were elected as directors, and telegrams were sent to President Chiang, Chairman Lin, and the soldiers at the front to express respect. (Dispatch, 1st)

### Details of the Downing of Japanese Aircraft Over Chongqing

Chongqing – At around 12 noon on the 31st, 35 Japanese army bombers attempted to attack the capital of China. When they flew to Beibei, they panicked upon seeing Chinese aircraft, indiscriminately dropped some bombs, and flew north. Later, they flew to the sky over Hechuan, hovering for half an hour, attempting to infiltrate the city airspace from the west of Chongqing. Unexpectedly, they encountered Chinese aircraft over Tongliang. The Chinese launched a fierce attack, and the Japanese aircraft were severely damaged. After hastily dropping bombs in the suburbs of Tongliang, they flew north. One Japanese aircraft crashed into a valley in the northern suburbs of Yunyang Jiangbei due to damage. At around 2 PM, 80 Japanese naval aircraft attacked in three waves. The first two waves simultaneously broke into the city airspace from the north. The Chinese were well-prepared and used a deformable tactics to successively penetrate the Japanese formation and launch a head-on attack. More than a dozen Japanese aircraft were injured and had black smoke coming from their tails. The Chinese aircraft fiercely pursued them. East of Pengshui, four Japanese aircraft that had fallen behind due to severe injuries were shot down separately. The locations are currently being investigated. The third wave of Japanese aircraft, witnessing the disastrous defeat of their first two waves, retreated after wreaking havoc near Fuling. Chongqing issued an all-clear at 3:45 PM. All Chinese aircraft returned safely except for one that did not return. (Dispatch, 31st)

Chongqing – According to official announcement, during yesterday's air raid on Chongqing, Chinese fighter planes shot down at least five Japanese bombers. One Chinese plane did not return to base. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Chongqing – After a two-week rest, Chongqing was bombed again by Japanese aircraft yesterday. Sixty Japanese aircraft participated in the bombing. A bomb was dropped on the Belgian Embassy. When they arrived near Chongqing on the same day, Chinese fighter planes took off to intercept them. The outcome of the battle has not yet been announced. (Haitong dispatch, 1st)

## Page 4

Editorial

### The International Test Conducted by Japan

Recently, under the pretext of searching for foreign intelligence agencies, the Japanese authorities suddenly arrested thirteen prominent British residents in Tokyo, Kobe, and other places. The scope of the same measures has been extended to the occupied areas of North China. Mr. Cox, the head of the Reuters Tokyo bureau, tragically died after falling from a building after being arrested. This is of course a very serious phenomenon between Britain and Japan. British public opinion is agitated, and the British government can no longer remain silent. However, it is reported that the Japanese side believes that the British protest has no basis and refuses to consider it.

It is not difficult to predict the future when the relationship between any two countries deteriorates to the point where similar phenomena are discovered. Espionage and counter-espionage are, in nature, organized, planned, and politically and militarily meaningful state actions, and often only exist between hostile countries. Spies are the hidden tentacles of a country, the sentinels disguised on the front lines. The home country must try its best to protect them, while the other side must do its best to prevent and eliminate them. Assuming that a genuine large-scale espionage case is discovered, it is tantamount to the beginning of two countries showing their true colors and engaging in close combat. At the same time, there is absolutely no possibility of recklessly engaging in public arrests without sufficient evidence, regardless of alarming the enemy, so as to hinder one's own counter-espionage work. International espionage cases will never happen unless in politically corrupt countries where police detectives run rampant; conversely, state-action-natured cases are an insult and provocation to the other party. From the two sides' accounts of the Tokyo and London authorities, although we can get a clear impression of the truth of the matter, we do not need to assert whether it is a case or not. However, whether it is a case or not, in short, it is either close combat or insult and provocation. In any other two countries, for policy, for honor, and even after estimating each other's strength, the inevitable trend of such deterioration can be immediately displayed; the only exception is today's England and Japan.

"Britain is on the wrong path," this newspaper has already elaborated on it yesterday. The British authorities' understanding of Japan is mostly outdated. They believe that at this critical juncture, they can no longer increase the number of enemies. They also believe that only concessions can exchange for Japan's goodwill neutrality. Furthermore, they believe that Britain's concession policy can help the moderate elements in Japan to raise their heads and prevent the extreme elements from acting recklessly. With such a view, although they know that this time the arrest of British residents in Tokyo is an insult to honor and a provocation to strength, whether they will endure the humiliation and whether they will retaliate depends on Britain re-evaluating everything about itself before they can understand. If Britain is like this, Japan is also on the wrong path.

Why is Japan also on the wrong path? The policy of the Japanese Yonai cabinet has of course disappeared with the resignation of the entire cabinet on the 16th of last month. It has been seventeen days so far, and who can know what the new Japanese policy actually entails? Konoe says a lot of big words, saying that he must quickly resolve the so-called China Incident, saying that diplomacy should not only cope, but also plan for the next thirty to fifty years, grasp the future, and create it automatically. Not to mention that from the publication of such fragmentary talks to the realization, I don't know how much possibility there is, I don't know how much time it will take. Even from the beginning of planning to start, there are still various different directions, different paths, different attitudes, different methods, and steps. If you say you don't care about everything and go your own way; then internally, you have to look at strength and spirit; externally, you have to look at the other party's reaction. For example, to resolve the China Incident, China is determined to defend its sovereignty and territory and will not succumb to aggression. For example, to strengthen the Germany-Italy-Japan axis, you have to see how Germany and Italy, halfway through the bloody battle, after winning a partial victory, will pay attention to Japan? For example, to squeeze out the rights and interests of Britain and France in the Far East, you have to see if Britain and France will bow their heads and retreat again and again? These future prospects have their various possibilities, but at least half of them are controlled by the other party, China, or Germany and Italy, or Britain and France, and not by Japan's own free control; could it be that Konoe has already foreseen everything, so he can grasp everything? If Konoe really knew everything and could do everything, then not only would he not have been silent for more than ten days since taking office; there would also be no measures to arrest British residents.

According to the unofficial announcement from the Japanese side regarding the so-called "inspection of various countries' intelligence agencies": Britain has a large-scale organization in Japan, which the Japanese call the "intelligence propaganda agency"; the work listed is: one, the propaganda outline lies in guiding Japan to be pro-British and anti-German, two, the propaganda target is Japanese elders, important ministers, and the upper echelons of society, as well as influential figures and backbones in the opinion circles, and three, the propaganda method is to distribute brochures, news, and films, etc. This is obviously the universal work of international propaganda in various countries, not so-called intelligence, let alone espionage. A crime in such "intelligence propaganda," and the arrested even committed suicide out of fear of punishment, is it not a strange thing? Therefore, it is speculated that the arrest of British residents is not entirely the case. Japan today has its aspired-to paradise, but its feet are deeply mired in the mud and there is no way to heaven. He hopes that Britain will bow its head and make concessions again and again, but he does not know how the British government and the public assess everything about Britain itself? He hopes that Germany and Italy will be willing to collude with him, but Germany and Italy are already triumphantly on the way to victory, how can they flirt to invite favor? The arrest of British residents is a double test for Britain and Germany. How many minutes the British side is agitated, it is impossible to know; and Berlin only coldly said to this matter: "It's not surprising, Britain has intelligence agencies in the capitals of European countries."

### Japanese Military Police in Tianjin and Beijing Interrogate Salvation Army Leaders, Enquiring in Detail about the Army's Activities in North China, Chinese Side in Beijing Closely Monitoring Foreign Nationals' Movements

Tianjin – Yesterday, Japanese military police in Tianjin, Beijing, and Beidaihe interrogated senior members of the Salvation Army about the army's activities in North China. The Salvation Army did not report the actions of the Japanese military police to the British authorities. When the British Consul-General here met with reporters today about this matter, he was unwilling to make a public statement. When leaders of the Salvation Army in Beijing were invited to the headquarters of the military police to report on the various activities of the army, several plainclothes Japanese also went to the English concession residence of Ms. Huntington, an adjutant of the Salvation Army in Tianjin, and questioned her in detail. The Japanese who visited were very polite, and Ms. Huntington immediately provided all the information, maintaining a position of no concealment. In addition, there are five other British members of the Salvation Army (including three women), all residing in the English concession, as well as Major Walker, who is currently in Beidaihe, who have also been visited and questioned by the Japanese. According to the Beijing Chronicle, the Japanese military police also questioned 43 Chinese members of the Salvation Army in Tianjin and Dagu, but there is no news as to whether any of them have been detained or harassed. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Tianjin – The British Consul-General here is unwilling to express any opinion on the Japanese side's interrogation of British people in North China yesterday. Well-informed sources believe that this matter may be left to London to decide. (United Press dispatch, 1st)

Beijing – Reports say that the main officers of the Salvation Army here were invited to the military police headquarters yesterday morning to report on their organization and activities. The newspaper now accuses the Salvation Army of "receiving remittances from London on a regular basis and always sympathizing with anti-Japanese elements." The military police department yesterday also interrogated 43 Chinese employees and six foreign employees of the Salvation Army in Tianjin, including four women. In addition, Major and Mrs. Walker were also questioned by the military police in Beidaihe. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Beijing – Since Japan arrested a large number of British residents in its territory, North China has also been investigating the activities of foreign residents, especially British residents, and has taken various measures to control news and prohibit the distribution of illegal information to secret locations. (Haitong dispatch, 1st)

### Qian Zongze Dies of Heart Disease

Chongqing – General Qian Zongze, Commander-in-Chief of Transportation of the Military Affairs Commission, suddenly suffered from angina on the way to Shantung at 6 AM on the 31st on official business. He was not rescued in time and died on the way at 8 AM. Mr. Qian had been in the military for a long time, and in his life he had always been loyal and devoted to his work. Since the outbreak of the War of Resistance, he has presided over military transportation. For three years, he has been planning with painstaking effort and has never been slightly slack. He has not had time to take care of his personal health, which has led to the sudden outbreak of accumulated diseases. He died suddenly at the age of 51. Mr. Qian was from Hangzhou County, graduated from Baoding Military Academy and Army University. During the First World War, he was sent to France to observe the war. After returning to China, he served as the Chief of the Zhejiang Provincial Police Department, the Chief of the Hangzhou Municipal Police Department, the Senior Staff Officer of the General Headquarters of the National Revolutionary Army, the Chief of the Second Department of the General Staff Headquarters, the Chief of Staff of the Wuhan, Kaifeng, and Guangdong Operational Headquarters of the Army, Navy, and Air Force, the Director of the Longhai Railway Bureau, the Director of the Beining Railway Bureau, the Vice Minister of the Ministry of Railways, and the Director of the Transportation Department of the Military Affairs Commission. Since the outbreak of the War of Resistance, he has served as the National Railway Transportation Commander, and later as the Commander-in-Chief of Transportation of the Military Affairs Commission, being the only talent in China to handle military transportation. His sudden death is deeply mourned at home and abroad. (Dispatch, 31st)

### Orders

National Government Order 31 appoints Chen Daqi as the Chief Examiner for the Preliminary Examination of the 29th Year National Civil Service Examination. This order. (2) Appoints Zhang Mojun, Shen Shiyuan, Zhang Zhongdao, Zhu Xizu, Hu Huanyong, Sun Yong, and Zhao Tingxuan as examiners for the first test of the 29th year regular examination. This order. (3) Appoints Guo Youshou and Min Yonglian as examiners for the first test of the 29th year regular examination. This order.

### Henri Haye Reappointed as French Ambassador to the United States

Vichy – The position of French Ambassador to the United States has been reassumed by Henri Haye. He first traveled to the United States 32 years ago, and has visited the United States several times since then, so he is very familiar with the political situation there. In 1917, when the French government dispatched a military and diplomatic delegation to the United States, he was also a member of the delegation. In 1931, he accompanied former Prime Minister Laval (current Cabinet Coordinator) to the United States to meet with former President Hoover. During his tenure as Mayor of Versailles, he initiated the erection of a memorial to General Pershing, commander of the former American Expeditionary Force in the European War. (Havas dispatch, 1st)

### Negotiations on Opening the Pearl River Between Britain and Japan Said to Have Stalled, Japan Demands Sending Supervisors to the Hong Kong-Guangdong Border, British Ship Berwick Held by Japan

Hong Kong – According to well-informed sources here last night, negotiations on opening the Pearl River for full commercial navigation have stalled at some point. The Japanese are adamant that those transporting goods on ships should belong to a "recognized association," but the British side claims that this would allow the Japanese to unfairly monopolize trade on the river, and also incite workers to launch anti-British movements. Well-informed sources say that the Japanese insistence that workers should belong to an association is because this measure can prevent smuggling. These people also believe that another point of contention is the Japanese insistence on sending supervisors to the border to prevent traffic between Hong Kong and the Chinese mainland. (United Press dispatch, 1st)

Hong Kong – Authoritative sources have recently stated that as a result of the deadlock in the Pearl River opening negotiations, the Japanese authorities in Guangzhou have detained a British ship, the Berwick. (United Press dispatch, 1st)

Hong Kong – It is expected that the relationship between Britain and Japan in South China will improve, as the reopening of the Pearl River will be implemented in a few days with the approval of Tokyo, and the commerce between Hong Kong and Guangdong will also be restored at the same time. British and Japanese consular authorities held negotiations in Guangzhou on restoring Pearl River navigation, and the results are said to be very satisfactory. Therefore, all restrictions on Pearl River navigation will be lifted, and Hong Kong is very interested in this matter. Since the partial destruction of the Guangzhou-Kowloon Railway and the occupation of the south of the Dongjiang River by the National Army, the Pearl River has been the only way for Hong Kong and Guangdong to trade. After the Pearl River is opened, some American goods can also enter the occupied areas of Guangdong Province via Guangzhou. Regardless of whether this move can be realized, since the outbreak of the "China Incident," the Japanese have never blockaded Hong Kong. Ships from all over the world, except for the Chinese side, can sail here. Since the fall of Guangzhou on October 21st two years ago, the Japanese Navy has never interfered with or obstructed ships. In short, goods from Hong Kong can be transported to the interior of Guangdong Province through several routes, and tungsten, tung oil, and bristles can also be transported to the United States through Hong Kong. (International News Service dispatch, 1st)

### Women's Frontline Service Association Celebrates Third Anniversary

Chongqing – Today is the third anniversary of the establishment of the Women's Frontline Service Association. Madame Chiang Kai-shek, Soong Mei-ling, along with prominent women leaders, visited the Chinese Air Force personnel who intercepted Japanese aircraft here this morning and distributed慰勞品. Madame Chiang also delivered a speech beforehand. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### The San Qing Tuan in Lanzhou Assists in the Prohibition of Opium

Lanzhou – In order to assist in the thorough implementation of the province's prohibition of opium, the Gansu branch of the Three People's Principles Youth League has issued orders to all levels of the league throughout the province to earnestly assist the local government in handling it, and has designated 70 outstanding members to form an investigation team to take charge of investigation work in Lanzhou City. (Dispatch, 1st)

### Ministry of Finance Officially Announces New Exchange Rate for Legal Tender and British Pound, One Legal Tender Yuan Equals Four and a Half Pence

Chongqing – According to the official announcement by the Ministry of Finance, the official exchange rate between legal tender and the British pound has been changed to four and a half pence from today. The exchange rates of other foreign currencies will be determined by comparing their market exchange rates with the British pound with the newly set exchange rate between legal tender and the British pound. The Foreign Trade Commission and the Bank of Communications have been notified. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Chongqing – The Ministry of Finance recently announced that from today, the exchange rate of the national currency is four and a half pence.

### Guilin Sends Personnel to Hong Kong to Investigate Overseas Chinese Returning to Guilin

Guilin – With the evacuation of the population in Hong Kong, overseas Chinese are eager to return to China. The Provincial Government has telegraphed and sent personnel to Hong Kong to be responsible for investigating and reporting the number of overseas Chinese coming to Guilin and their entry routes, work, and volunteers, etc., and to provide assistance and protection along the way. (Dispatch, 1st)

### Chongqing Press Sends Condolences to the Family of Karasnoff

Chongqing – Zhang Sixu, the publisher of the Shanghai Great American Evening Post, was assassinated in Shanghai. A Polish man named Karasnoff risked his life to capture the thugs and unfortunately suffered the same tragic fate. The Chongqing Press Association believes that Mr. Karasnoff's courageous act is extremely admirable and has sent a telegram of condolence to his family and presented a gift of 500 yuan. The original telegram is recorded below. To the Shanghai Polish Overseas Association transferring to the family of Mr. Karasnoff: Mr. Zhang Sixu was assassinated in Shanghai, and Mr. Karasnoff captured the thugs on the spot, resulting in a tragedy and death. The Chongqing Press Association deeply mourns this courageous spirit of Mr. Karasnoff on behalf of the entire press circle of Chongqing and conveys their deepest condolences by telegram. A 金仪 of 500 yuan has been prepared to express sorrow and respect. The Chongqing Press Association respectfully salutes. (Dispatch, 31st)

## Page 5

### US House Passes Additional Defense Funds for "Two-Ocean Navy" and Equipment for Two Million Soldiers; Senate Amends Compulsory Military Training Bill

Washington - The House of Representatives yesterday passed a bill to add $5 billion in defense spending to establish a "Two-Ocean Navy" and to equip an army of two million men. Observers say that the passage of this unprecedented plan with very few opponents is proof of the change in attitude of US legislators since the outbreak of the European war eleven months ago. (International News Service dispatch, 1st)

Washington - The House of Representatives has unanimously passed a bill for approximately $5 billion for a "Two-Ocean Navy" and equipment for two million soldiers, and it has been approved by the House Appropriations Committee. Thus, the total amount of funds for the army and navy approved by this session of Congress has broken records, reaching over $10 billion. The Appropriations Committee also approved the Bureau of Budget's request for 14,394 aircraft of various types, of which 4,028 will be allocated to the Navy. As a result, the total number of aircraft in the US Navy will increase to around 6,000. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Washington - The Senate Military Affairs Committee yesterday amended the compulsory military training bill, reducing the age of men required to register from 18-64 to 21-31. This move will reduce the number of registrants to 12 million. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Secretary of War Stimson Addresses Congress, Urges Attention to Army Strength

Washington - Secretary of War Stimson recently told the House Military Affairs Committee that the only way to deal with the general war situation is through compulsory military training. The volunteer system has repeatedly wasted money and failed. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Washington - Secretary of War Stimson told the House Military Affairs Committee yesterday that the United States is now facing a possible enemy who could conquer Britain within thirty days. He said that this potential danger to the United States is "Hitler's direct invasion." When asked, "Assuming Germany occupies a certain country in South America, how long do you think it would take Germany to conquer South America?" Stimson replied, "Perhaps not as long as some people imagine." He said, "We are not yet truly at war, but the world around us is in flames. Japan's powerful fleet in the Pacific is controlled by a power allied with the Axis powers." He said it is possible that a certain foreign fleet could defeat Britain and that other countries possess shipbuilding capabilities "six times greater than ours." "Therefore, all of you here are entrusted by the nation and should pay attention to our country's army strength, which we will soon have to consider." He emphasized that the US Army, including the National Guard, currently numbers about 463,000 men, compared to the Netherlands' army of 560,000 and Belgium's 647,000. Colonel Stimson told the committee that if the United States removes its protection of the Philippines, it will give the islands a "bitter cup." He recalled his time as Governor-General of the Philippines and praised the islanders' loyal affection for the United States. "I know well that they support the United States." Although Filipinos are ardent advocates of independence (Stimson said this is only a claim to the island's autonomy), they should still rely on the protection of the United States. (Associated Press dispatch, 1st)

Washington - US Army Chief of Staff General Marshall recently stated to the Appropriations Subcommittee that immediate mobilization of the National Guard and compulsory military training are imperative. If our assessment of the situation is correct, then we have no time left to debate compulsory service and must take immediate action along this path. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Jones Formally Announces US Credit Loan to China; Over $22 Million Still Available

Washington - Jesse Jones, Chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation, announced yesterday that China's use of credit loans from the US Export-Import Bank is "very slow." China still has $22 million in credit loans available. China's repayment of early loans has been slow due to delays in the transport of tin. "China is preparing to increase tin production, and I am confident that China will be able to repay all loans." (Associated Press dispatch, 1st)

### Soviet Supreme Soviet Seventh Session Opens; Molotov Delivers Important Report; Council of Nationalities Meeting Convenes Simultaneously; Sino-Soviet Committee Approves Current Foreign Policy

Moscow - The session of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR is scheduled to open at 2:00 PM on the 1st in the Kremlin to discuss general domestic and foreign policy issues. The Council of Nationalities meeting will convene at 4:00 PM on the same afternoon. (TASS dispatch, 1st)

Moscow - Soviet People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs Molotov will address the Supreme Soviet today, delivering an important message on Soviet relations with Japan, Germany, Italy, and the Balkan countries. The Supreme Soviet will today approve the Soviet annexation of Bessarabia and formalize the incorporation of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia into the Soviet Union. Twenty members of parliament from each of the three Baltic states arrived here yesterday and were warmly welcomed. (Associated Press dispatch, 1st)

Moscow - Representatives of the parliaments of Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia arrived here yesterday. The Lithuanian delegation was led by Prime Minister and Acting President Balyskišs. The Latvian and Estonian delegations were also led by their respective Prime Ministers and Acting Presidents, the Latvian Prime Minister being Kirhenšteins and the Estonian Prime Minister being Vares. The Latvian Prime Minister stated that the purpose of their visit was to represent all the people in requesting the Supreme Soviet of the USSR to allow Latvia to join the Soviet Union. (TASS dispatch, 1st)

Moscow - Representatives from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina arrived here yesterday to participate in the Seventh Session of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. They were warmly welcomed at the station by the working masses of Moscow. Representative Kryliuk addressed the crowd, saying, "After Bessarabia was forcibly occupied by Romania, the people suffered oppression for twenty years. The plundering by Romanian nobles has turned the area into a land of poverty and death. The freedom we have longed for has finally arrived. We will build a new life and, under the leadership of the great Stalin, assist the strong Soviet nation." (TASS dispatch, 31st)

Moscow - The Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union held a routine meeting the other day and approved the government's current foreign policy, and also passed the following resolutions: (1) On the issue of agricultural harvest and storage; (2) On the implementation of an eight-hour workday, a seven-day workweek system, and strict prohibition of employees and workers from leaving their posts without authorization. This system was promulgated by order of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR on June 26, 1940. In addition, the Soviet People's Committee's recommendation to establish a State Control People's Commissariat was also approved by the routine meeting. (TASS dispatch, 1st)

### Japanese Government Announces Basic Policies; Reorganize Internal Administration; Resolve the China Incident

Tokyo - The Konoe government today issued a lengthy statement explaining its basic policies: to completely reorganize the internal administration of Japan and its empire to achieve the fundamental goal of completing Japan's national defense and as the first step towards building a new order in Greater East Asia. The statement said, "At this great turning point in world history, we must grasp the inevitable trend of world development and strive to complete the structure of national defense. There is an urgent need." The statement elaborated on the contents of the new basic national policy, saying it is the first step towards building a new order in Greater East Asia. The diplomatic policy will first be directed towards a complete resolution of the China Incident. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Tokyo - It is reported that Ohashi Chuichi, former Foreign Minister and Privy Councilor of the "Manchukuo" government, has agreed to take the position of Foreign Minister. The Japanese Foreign Minister Matsuoka telegraphed to seek his consent. Currently, he is on his way back from the Dutch East Indies. The formal announcement will be made after he returns to Tokyo in mid-August. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### US-Soviet Negotiations to Renew Trade Agreement

Moscow - US Chargé d'Affaires to the Soviet Union Thurston accompanied Soviet Foreign Trade Commissar Mikoyan yesterday to discuss the US-Soviet trade agreement that expires on August 6. The agreement was signed in 1937 and has been renewed annually since then. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Washington - Acting Secretary of State Welles has disclosed that the Soviet Union has protested to the United States against President Roosevelt's order prohibiting the unauthorized withdrawal of funds in the United States belonging to Lithuania, Latvia, and Estonia. The US government has not yet responded. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### US Railway Motor Car Collides with Freight Train; Forty-One Passengers Die

Akron, Ohio, USA - Today, a railway motor car collided with a freight train, killing all forty-one passengers. The motor car was oil-powered and caught fire immediately after the collision. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Japanese Foreign Minister Advocates Accelerating Southern Advance Policy; German Activities Will Shift to the Far East; Crush Japanese Expansion Plan

Tokyo - Foreign Minister Yosuke Matsuoka explained Japan's new foreign policy to reporters today, saying that Japan will never shake hands with countries that refuse to cooperate. The policy of "patting backs" will be abandoned. Regarding the European war, Japan will adhere to a policy of non-involvement for the time being, but he declined to make any further comments on this matter. Matsuoka also said that Greater East Asia includes the South Seas region, without saying more. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Tokyo - "Hochi Shimbun" reported that the new Foreign Minister Yosuke Matsuoka advocates that Japan rapidly promote its southern advance policy and plans to establish a "South Seas Development Company," whose nature and activities will be similar to that of the South Manchuria Railway Company. This measure may involve subtle relationships with Germany, Britain, the United States, and other countries. However, the newspaper believes that the Japanese government is firmly determined to "guarantee Japan's lifeline in the south." "Asahi Shimbun" reported that Britain's concern about the possibility of Japan joining the Axis powers on the eve of Germany's attack on Britain, and Britain's consultation with the United States regarding the impact of Japan's policy decisions on the Far Eastern situation, prompted the recent visit of the British Ambassador to Tokyo to Matsuoka. The newspaper further stated that the Japanese government has no need to notify Britain or any country regarding its future diplomatic path. The implementation of future concrete steps will clarify Japan's basic diplomatic policy and its adjustments. Britain's understanding of the true situation in the Far East is a necessary condition for improving British-Japanese relations. The newspaper predicted that Matsuoka would refuse future requests for similar inquiries. (Associated Press dispatch, 1st)

San Francisco - Philippine mining tycoon H. Foster Bain stated yesterday that Chancellor Hitler may shatter Japan's plan to expand its empire and may even seize Vietnam and the Dutch East Indies. Speaking at a luncheon to the Foreign Trade Department of the Pacific Trade Association, he said, "I think this is possible. Germany was originally a strong power in the Far East before the Great War. At this moment, it is possible for them to restrain or even shatter Japan's plans. German political logicians may think that since Germany has already occupied Holland and France, it should also have the right to control their colonies. When Germany enters the Far East in the posture of a colonial power, it will be the time for that country to strike at Japan. I believe that Germany's activities in South America will shift to the Far East because there is more hope of success there." (Associated Press dispatch, 1st)

### Australian Troops Defend New Guinea

Canberra - According to regulations promulgated under the Defense Act, the Mandated Territory of New Guinea has been incorporated into the Australian defense system and, together with Papua, has been designated as the Eighth Military District of Australia. This regulation authorizes Australia to protect New Guinea. New Guinea is a large island located north of Australia, separated by the Arafura Sea and the 40-mile-wide Torres Strait. To the southeast of the island is Papua, and to the northeast is the mandated territory formerly belonging to Germany, which was occupied by Australian troops in 1914. The western part of the island belongs to the Netherlands. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Sydney Radio Announces Australian War Effort; Over 10,000 Recruits Called Up

Canberra - Radio Sydney, Australia, reports that as a result of yesterday's call-up, over 10,000 more people will join the Australian military. There are now 120,000 soldiers in service in Australia. Australia's war effort this time is much stronger than in the last war. A total of 122,000 people have enlisted in the army, navy, and air force by the end of June, an increase of 26,000 compared to the first ten months of the last war. There are also 15,000 people who have enlisted in the Australian military but have been retained in the country to manufacture munitions, etc., who have not been included in the figures. By the end of June, the Australian military, including the National Guard, numbered 185,000, and the number of munitions factory workers was five times greater than at any time during the last war. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Sir Owen to Go to Hong Kong to Supervise Management Matters

London - Sir Owen, Chairman of the Merchant Shipping Advisory Committee, has accepted the invitation of the Hong Kong government to go to Hong Kong to guide the future management of the area. Owen will be accompanied by engineering consultant Conner. It is expected that the two will depart for the Far East in September. Their mission will be to investigate the entire issue of Hong Kong's port facilities and administrative organization, and the dockyard lease system, which expires in ten years, will also be taken into account. They will also provide recommendations on how the port can be further developed in economic and political terms to benefit all parties. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

British House of Commons Discusses Hong Kong Evacuation Issue

London - Colonial Under-Secretary Hall replied in the House of Commons yesterday to questions regarding the evacuation of women and children from Hong Kong, saying that the British government, in view of the unstable situation in Hong Kong, has decided to implement the plan to evacuate women and children from Hong Kong, but this will be limited to the smallest possible extent, and long-term British residents in Hong Kong and their families will not be included. The implementation of population dispersal, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, will inevitably cause disturbances, which is quite regrettable. However, the government now intends to consider individual difficult cases to the greatest extent possible. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

### Rumors that US and Canada are Conducting Negotiations for Joint Defense

Washington - Startling reports were received here this morning, claiming that Canadian Prime Minister King has stated that the United States and Canada are conducting negotiations to take joint defense measures. The Canadian government will allow the United States to build naval and army bases within its borders. (Haitong News Agency dispatch, 1st)

### Duke of Windsor on US Ship

Lisbon - The US ship Excalibur will set sail for New York this morning. Many dignitaries are among the passengers, such as the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, former US Ambassador to Poland Biddle, and US Ambassador to Italy Phillips. It is heard that the Duke of Windsor will use the name Captain Wood on board. The motive is to avoid general attention. (Haitong News Agency dispatch, 1st)

### West Siberian New Railway Line Opens

Moscow - The railway line connecting Volochaevka and Komsomolsk, which has been under construction for the past few years, officially opened today. The road is 357 kilometers long. Komsomolsk is the most important industrial center in the Soviet Far East and is now directly connected to Khabarovsk. (Haitong News Agency dispatch, 1st)

### Britain to Decide on Policy Toward Japan; Monitoring Development of Arrest of Nationals; Two More Detained British Nationals Released; One US Reporter Also Interrogated by Japan

London - The Times diplomatic correspondent commented today on the Japanese arrest of British nationals, saying that the British government is now closely monitoring all developments, as it will base its future policy toward Japan on them. London now feels that this move is politically motivated without any doubt. All of those arrested have been known in the past for their efforts to improve British-Japanese relations. The aspirations and hopes of these people have apparently angered the Japanese and extremist groups too much, who are more willing to believe the gossip of the many organized German National Socialists who are increasingly powerful in Japan today. This arrest seems to be aimed at overturning the friendly work that these people were trying to do, so Berlin is very pleased with the course of events, even more so than the many large factions that still hold power in Tokyo. The statements issued by the Japanese Ministry of the Army and the Ministry of Justice can hardly represent the entire opinion of the Japanese government that has been considered. For example, the phrase "calling Britain a hostile country" does not seem to have been passed by the Cabinet. However, the British must not therefore underestimate this statement, because it can show how the extremist groups now have the confidence to act independently, and what their power is. As for the British side, everyone now knows that the arrest and all the comments are completely unfounded. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

London - According to responsible sources here, more British nationals arrested in Japan have been released. The number of British nationals who have regained their freedom is now six, and there are still seven detained. The two British nationals who have been released are (1) Truman of the Kobe Ferrell Company and (2) General Manager Illi of Rising Sun Oil Company. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Tokyo - According to Japanese sources, Japanese military police summoned Morin, the Tokyo correspondent of the American United Press, last night and interrogated him because Morin had repeatedly issued "false and unfounded news" about the death of Reuters correspondent Cox. Morin was released last night after "apologizing." Cox's funeral was held yesterday, and Morin also participated in the funeral procession. (Reuters dispatch, 1st)

Tokyo - Regarding the British espionage plot in Japan, there was another new development yesterday. It is reported that a member of the British Embassy in Japan secretly stole Japan's shipbuilding plans in the Tokyo harbor. According to Asahi Shimbun, there have been no fewer than ten cases of British people illegally entering the harbor and taking photos that have been investigated and solved by the Japanese authorities. (Haitong News Agency dispatch, 1st)

### London US Embassy Secretary Arrested

London - Kent, a secretary at the US Embassy, has been arrested here and has been tried at Bow Street Police Station. It is heard that the reason for his arrest is that he has violated the British Defense Regulations. (Associated Press dispatch, 1st)

## Page 6

### South Atlantic Second British-German Naval Battle; One German Ship Chased by British Cruiser; German Ship Escapes After Being Hit and Releasing Smoke Screen

London - The Admiralty has announced that our auxiliary cruiser "Alcantara," which was converted from a merchant ship, recently engaged in a naval battle with a German warship in the South Atlantic. Since the outbreak of the European war last autumn, this is the second naval battle in the South Atlantic. This German ship was also converted from a merchant ship and had recently sailed to the South Atlantic, where it had successively attacked the British ships "King John" and "Davisian." After the rescued crew members returned to a certain port in our country a few days ago, they reported to the authorities. This German ship was flying the Swedish flag. Our naval authorities immediately sent the "Alcantara" to pursue and suppress it, and finally engaged in a naval battle. The German ship was hit by a shell, suffered heavy damage and escaped, releasing a smoke screen to cover it. However, our ship continued to pursue closely. Although it was hit by a shell from the German ship, killing two officers and soldiers and wounding seven, the material damage was minimal. It is still in pursuit. The first naval battle in the South Atlantic between British and German fleets was when three British cruisers engaged the German pocket battleship "Admiral Graf Spee" near Uruguay in December last year. As a result, the German ship was forced to scuttle itself. (Havas dispatch, 31st)

London - The British auxiliary cruiser "Alcantara's" pursuit of an unidentified German warship is now taking place in the Pan-American neutral zone. According to reports from Rio de Janeiro, the two ships are fighting off the coast of Trinidad, seemingly violating Pan-American neutrality rules. It is expected that the "Alcantara" will sail into the Rio de Janeiro shipyard for repairs because its bow was hit by a shell. (London dispatch, 1st)

### Italian Newspaper Reviews Strategy for Attacking Britain; Focused on War of Attrition

Rome - The Italian newspaper "Il Giornale d'Italia" wrote yesterday that the war to attack Britain will not be the same as the campaign to attack France. The difference in the strategy for attacking Britain is not because Britain is an island nation, but because of the vastness of the British Empire. This campaign will focus on a war of attrition, to reduce the enemy's resistance, and must eliminate the military forces that assist Britain around the world. Germany and Italy have already decided to adopt this method. Currently, Germany is using systematic methods to disintegrate Britain's entire structure and isolate it from the outside world. As a result, Britain will inevitably lose most of its offensive and defensive capabilities. This will not only determine the outcome of the war, but also is a prerequisite for combat on British soil. Therefore, German dive bombers and torpedo boats are weakening Britain's resistance every day. Italy's task is to blockade the Mediterranean and attack the land and naval forces in various regions. The Italian military's attacks on the core of the British Empire also have a great impact on the political aspects. The increasing tension in British-Japanese relations and the rise of the Indian independence movement can all be seen as a result of Italian actions. (Haitong News Agency dispatch, 1st)

### Severe Weather in Western Europe Hinders German Air Force Activity; Air Battle off Southeastern Coast of England Lasts Four Hours; British Destroyer HMS "Delight" Sunk

Berlin. This afternoon, German military reports stated that yesterday's severe weather greatly hindered German Air Force operations. However, when German aircraft scouted the English Channel, several armed merchant ships were bombed. German aircraft attacked ports in southern England. Last night, above Dover, German Messerschmitt fighter planes engaged in fierce combat with British Spitfires. Five British planes were shot down, with no German losses. When British planes attacked Norwegian, Danish, and Dutch territories, three were shot down. Last night, British planes dropped bombs on northern and western Germany, destroying several houses and causing casualties, but no military installations or objectives were hit. In total, the enemy lost eight aircraft yesterday, while two German aircraft went missing. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Berlin. The German military headquarters yesterday issued a supplementary battle report, stating that the severe weather in Western Europe greatly hindered the offensive against England. Yesterday's main German action was reconnaissance flights, but attacks were still launched on military objectives in southern England. Since the end of the French campaign on June 26th, no large-scale military operations have been conducted, leading outsiders to believe that Germany is unwilling to proceed with the invasion of England. This is a grave misconception. In reality, the attack on England is proceeding fiercely. The victories of the German navy and air force after the Franco-German armistice, and the military headquarters' report from June 25th to July 31st, all prove this. During that period, Britain lost 370 aircraft and 936,000 tons of ships were sunk. In addition, 334,000 tons of British merchant ships were bombed by German aircraft. The above statistics do not include British warships and merchant ships that were heavily damaged or rendered unusable. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Rome. An editorial in an authoritative newspaper here stated that although an immediate attack on England may not commence, responsible Fascist authorities predict that once the weather is deemed favorable, Germany and Italy will launch a "decisive attack" on England. It is said that all methods of cooperation between Germany and Italy in the future effort to divide the British Empire have been arranged. However, Caida in the Italian Daily editorial stated that the Italian people need not expect a large-scale blitzkrieg against England at present. The Axis powers are waiting for an opportunity to launch a "strike and destroy" policy against British defenses and industry. According to well-informed sources, Italian land, sea, and air forces will attack British interests in the Mediterranean and launch a large-scale attack on England. (One-day International Telegraph)

London. An Air Ministry communique stated that on Tuesday, British Royal Air Force bombers spent the entire day attacking military targets in northern France and within Dutch territory. Aircraft fields at Ostend railway, Cherbourg and Boulogne, were all bombed. Coastal aircraft, while engaged in reconnaissance and escort duties, attacked coastal batteries in Norway and a supply ship north of Stavanger, and bombed the Emden naval base. One British aircraft went missing. Nighttime activity was reduced due to severe weather, but British aircraft still attacked oil refineries, warehouses, and aircraft fields in Hamburg and other locations. No British aircraft were lost. In July, at least 240 German aircraft were shot down by the British Air Force and ground defenses. At least 600 enemy air force officers and men were killed or captured. This number only includes confirmed destroyed enemy aircraft; many other enemy aircraft damaged in the air or on the ground are not included. Furthermore, the Air Ministry Information Department stated that on Tuesday, British aircraft launched a surprise attack on coastal targets from Vlissingen to Cherbourg. One British aircraft was attacked by several German fighter planes over the Vlissingen airfield. One of the German fighters was hit by the British aircraft's rear gunner, with smoke billowing from both wings as it crashed into the sea. Although the British bomber's engine was hit, it still safely flew back. Ships off Walcheren Island, the Saint-Colombu oil storage depot, and an airfield near Amiens were also bombed that day. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

London. The British destroyer HMS "Delight" was attacked by enemy aircraft yesterday and sank after being damaged. There were few lives lost. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

London. According to a report from the Air Ministry last night, German aircraft groups attacked the southeastern coast of England in batches yesterday and retreated after a four-hour battle with British aircraft. (One-day International Telegraph)

### British Navy Sinks Greek Oil Tanker for Carrying Supplies to Italian Troops

London. A naval communique stated that according to a report from the British Mediterranean Fleet Commander-in-Chief, the Greek oil tanker "Hermione," chartered by the Italian government and carrying 300 tons of gasoline and 200 tons of lubricating oil to supply Italian troops in the Dodecanese Islands, was intercepted by the British Navy in the Aegean Sea on the evening of Saturday. After confirming the ship's nature and cargo as contraband, a large squadron of Italian aircraft attacked. The British fleet was forced to order the captain and crew of the "Hermione" to abandon ship and then shelled and sank the vessel. The weather was clear. The Greek crew stated that they did not need assistance and sailed to nearby land in lifeboats. The Italian side greatly exaggerated this air raid, claiming that Italian aircraft engaged British warships and that several ships were hit and damaged. In reality, the British fleet suffered no damage, proving that the Italian claim of accurate British warship anti-aircraft fire was not an empty boast. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

### British Aircraft Bomb Norwegian Defense Ship

Oslo. Yesterday, a Norwegian armed coastal defense ship was bombed by British aircraft. The crew escaped in lifeboats. When they sailed near the coast, British aircraft strafed them with machine guns, resulting in one crew member being killed and two seriously wounded, including the captain. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### British Home Office Publishes White Paper

London. The Home Office has recently published a White Paper regarding the matter of detained German and Austrian refugees. It divides those enemy aliens who can be released into eighteen categories, which can be broadly classified into two levels: one, the disabled, elderly, and weak; and two, those with special qualifications and experience who can contribute to Britain. The exact number of releases is not yet known, but public opinion suggests that compared to the number of those detained, the number of releases will not be large. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

### British Navy Sinks Two Italian Submarines; Gibraltar Attacked Again; Quiet on African Fronts

Cairo. The British Air Force Headquarters announced this morning that Italian troop concentrations near Kaisala were heavily bombed by British aircraft in the past two days. On Tuesday, British aircraft launched continuous air raids from dawn until night, and yesterday, they attacked military targets twice, inflicting heavy damage on the concentrated troops. All British aircraft returned safely. In the Makaijia area, British aircraft hit two large aircraft hangars with bombs. Black smoke was seen rising after the bombing. Recently, the British Air Force destroyed two Italian submarines. Details are as follows: (1) A British patrol aircraft discovered an enemy submarine and immediately dove to attack, hitting it with two bombs. After the submarine sank into the sea, the British aircraft continued to attack, and air bubbles and a large oil slick were seen. (2) British aircraft discovered an enemy submarine and attacked it. The second bomb hit the submarine's conning tower. The submarine was seen sinking into the sea, and a large oil slick, covering half a square mile, and air bubbles were seen for a long time. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

Rome. According to the Italian military headquarters, Italian aircraft attacked the British Navy on the 28th of last month, sinking a torpedo boat. During an air battle during an Italian air raid on Malta, two British aircraft were shot down, and one Italian aircraft was also lost. In East Africa, a British automobile station in Hua'er was attacked, and three aircraft parked on the airfield at the British airfield in Borna were destroyed. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Rome. According to reports from Tangier, Italian air forces attacked Gibraltar on the previous day and yesterday, destroying 25 British aircraft. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Madrid. According to reports from Linia, yesterday afternoon, several aircraft of unknown nationality attacked Gibraltar again. Despite heavy anti-aircraft fire, the aircraft dropped several large bombs on the fortress. (One-day Huitong Telegraph). Several enemy aircraft flew over Malta yesterday morning but did not drop any bombs. A British fighter shot down one enemy fighter into the sea. One British fighter was also shot down, but the pilot parachuted out and was rescued. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

Cairo. A communiqué stated that there was nothing to report on the African fronts. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

Nairobi. A communiqué stated that British troops encountered and engaged in a fierce battle with a large Italian force at Dupeil, about 30 miles south of Moyale. After inflicting heavy damage on the enemy, the British troops disengaged and returned. British aircraft then flew over the area for reconnaissance. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

### Balkan Entente Likely to Dissolve; Romanian Prime Minister Meets with Peasant Party Leader; Related to Future Romanian-Hungarian Negotiations

Berlin. Dr. Mik尔 wrote an article in the "Berlin Financial Daily" yesterday, stating that dissolving the Balkan Entente should be the second objective of Germany's Balkan policy. The reasons for organizing the Balkan Entente at the time no longer exist. After the Salzburg and Rome meetings, a new policy has emerged. Romania has expressed its willingness to adhere to the policies of the Axis powers. The upcoming talks between Romania and Hungary and Bulgaria will likely announce the abandonment of the Entente organization and its policies. Yugoslavia and Greece will not want to avoid the consequences of this development. Turkey's situation is extremely difficult because its policies often support Western countries. After the dissolution of the Balkan Entente, Turkey must decide whether to adapt its policies to those of the Balkan countries or withdraw from Europe. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Bucharest. Foreign news agencies are spreading rumors that Romania and Hungary will meet in Arad. According to well-informed sources, this is completely unfounded. The Hungarian capital also denies this, stating that although Romanian-Hungarian negotiations are in preparation, the meeting location has not yet been specified. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Bucharest. Romanian Prime Minister Gigurtu met yesterday with Maniu, the leader of the now-dissolved National Peasant Party and former Prime Minister. It is believed that the content of the meeting is related to the upcoming Romanian-Hungarian negotiations. Maniu, currently the leader of Romanians in Outer Transylvania, arrived here the day before yesterday. After a 30-minute conversation with Gigurtu, he immediately informed politicians in Outer Transylvania of the results of the meeting. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Nationalization of Foreign Mining in Yugoslavia

Belgrade, Yugoslavia. According to a report yesterday from the Stefani News Agency, the Yugoslav government has taken control of the British-operated Trepca lead mine and the French-operated Bor copper mine. The government has sent inspectors to monitor their production and prevent destructive activities. It is reported that all production from these two mines will be used by Germany and Italy. An investigation at Trepca uncovered a British plot to block the Danube. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

General Hichev Returns to Bulgarian Capital

Sofia. General Hichev, commander-in-chief of the Bulgarian army during World War I, returned here yesterday after inspecting the western front in Germany and meeting with German leader Hitler. In a speech to welcoming personnel, he stated that his impressions of the inspection of the various battlefields on the western front were very good. Everyone he came into contact with in Germany expressed goodwill towards him and the Bulgarian people. Cooperation between Germany and Bulgaria has been demonstrated by historical facts, and he believes that Bulgaria's wishes will soon be realized because Great Germany has achieved a position in world politics. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Romania Considers Tax Reform

Bucharest. The Romanian Ministry of Finance is currently discussing a plan to convert the National Bank of Romania into a central bank. At the same time, it intends to lower the current tax system. It is also learned that Romania's military expenditures will be reduced in the near future, but the tax reform plan will not be implemented for the time being. The Romanian authorities now intend to wait and see how diplomatic politics evolve before deciding to take various measures. Furthermore, in view of the recent severe measures taken against Jews, which may lead to labor strikes or resistance by Jews, it has been decided to postpone the implementation of the tax reform plan to avoid affecting national income. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Bucharest. Romanian Finance Minister Leon stated at a press conference today that Romania's financial situation has returned to normal. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Bucharest. British expatriate Clark, residing in Romania, has been accused of violating bankruptcy laws and will soon be tried in the Prahova court because his handling of the affairs of the Romanian-Filipino Oil Company was not entirely legal. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### Churchill Inspects Coastal Defenses

London. Prime Minister Churchill yesterday unexpectedly visited northeastern England to inspect coastal batteries and fortifications. The former drove along the coast, frequently getting out of the car to inspect various sections of the defenses with great attention and engaging in warm conversations with officers. Churchill also gave a speech to workers along the way, stating that he did not know whether Hitler had missed his opportunity, but no matter what happened, Hitler's opportunity to drive straight in, which he had a few months ago, no longer existed. At that time, the wives and daughters of workers gathered at the gate of a factory. Moved by their warm welcome, the Prime Minister asked loudly, "Are we discouraged?" The workers' wives and daughters immediately replied loudly, "No!" (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

### Tangier Elects Administrative Chief; Spanish Minister Elected

Tangier. Yesterday, the Legislative Assembly of the International Zone of Tangier unanimously elected Spanish Minister Dr. Miguel Yiva as the Administrative Chief of the zone. Since the establishment of the Tangier Parliament in 1923, Spain has had the right to nominate the Administrative Chief because the residents of the zone are mostly Spanish. France has repeatedly contested this right. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### Egypt Divided into Three Dangerous Zones

Rome. According to the Ankara correspondent of the Labour Fascist News, the British military authorities in Egypt have announced three "dangerous zones". The first zone includes Alexandria, Cairo (where New Zealand and Indian troops are stationed), Hiyaksum (the base of the British Air Force), Port Said and Suez. The second zone includes 20 cities and villages, including Mansoura. The third zone includes places of less importance, such as Mingjia. This measure by the British military has aroused dissatisfaction among the locals, who have been fleeing in droves to other places. This exodus has added to the great difficulties in evacuating refugees from Cairo and Alexandria. The organization of the transportation of evacuated people is extremely inadequate, and many parents and children have been separated. The elderly, weak, and disabled are not being cared for. Police stations and city halls are crowded with hungry people pleading for assistance from the authorities, but due to the British measures, no prior notice was given, leaving the Egyptian authorities unprepared. As a result, anti-British sentiment among the people is intensifying. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### US Newspaper Advocates Mediating European War

Washington. The "Saturday Evening Post" published an editorial advocating that the United States mediate the European war, stating that the current U.S. foreign policy will inevitably lead to participation in the war. The result of participation in the war will be international chaos and a fatal blow to the U.S. political system. Britain has absolutely no hope of victory. The war should be ended immediately so that Britain can avoid deeper suffering. All belligerent nations can stop fighting without damaging their national honor and prestige. The United States should clearly state to the British government that if Britain does not negotiate peace and insists on continuing the war, the United States will not participate in assisting Britain. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### Prominent French Figures Subject to Denaturalization; Assets Temporarily Confiscated by the State

Vichy. This morning, French radio reported that several French people have been subject to denaturalization, including many prominent figures, such as the directors of the Museum of Fine Arts and the National Library, Huysmans and Cohen; journalist Faiaiscoff; Senator Rothschild; Representative Meyer; bankers Lassalle Brothers; industrialists Rosenzart, Solinsky and Biusha, among others. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Vichy. Many prominent French figures have been stripped of their nationality by the government. In addition to those mentioned in the previous report, in the press there are also the publisher of "Le Petit Parisien", Bua; the publisher of "Paris Soir", Lassaf; the publisher of "Soir", Kaiser; among the bankers, there is also de-leffis; among the parliamentarians there is Nas; among automobile manufacturers there is Rosenzart (named Louis). The above-mentioned people all fled France between May 10th and June 30th. Therefore, their properties will be confiscated. However, if they can declare that their motives for leaving the country were justified, they may still regain their nationality and citizenship, and the confiscated property may be returned. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### Chamberlain's Condition Continues to Improve

London. According to a communiqué, Secretary of State Chamberlain continues to make satisfactory progress after undergoing surgery a few days ago. Therefore, no further communiqués regarding Chamberlain's condition will be issued. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

### French Government Allocates Large Sums for Agricultural Revitalization

Vichy. According to an official gazette published here last night, the French government has authorized the Ministry of Finance to lend 20 billion francs to agricultural associations to engage in agricultural construction work. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

Vichy. French Coordinator Laval commented yesterday that the economic plan announced by German Economic Minister Funk a few days ago when he met with a reporter from the "Cambodia-Southern Echo Magazine" was extremely detailed and proved to be practical in many ways. As far as France is concerned, Funk's plan can be said to be replacing industry with agriculture. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### British Economic Warfare Department Issues New Order; Intensifying Naval Blockade

London. The new cabinet order announced by Minister of Economic Warfare Dalton on Tuesday has been published and implemented at midnight. It stipulates that any vessel en route to or from any port that allows goods to pass through enemy territory without a valid naval permit is liable to confiscation. If the conditions stated in the naval permit are not complied with, the permit is no longer valid. From now on, all non-British vessels must obtain a British naval permit, otherwise they will not be able to enjoy the convenience of coal and water supplies in British ports. The purpose of this British move is to prevent neutral vessels from entering the blockade zone. (One-day Reuters Telegraph)

### German Newspaper Comments on British Blockade Measures Against Continental Europe

Berlin. Regarding the British announcement of a blockade of Continental Europe, the newspapers here last night considered it to be "an attempt to blackmail Spain." Editorials in each newspaper solemnly pointed out that British blockade measures do not endanger Europe's supply of food and raw materials necessary for the war. The "Berlin Evening News" stated that the British blockade of all of Europe is to obstruct the normal development of areas around Gibraltar in order to maintain its position in the western Mediterranean. Since the failure of British Balkan policy and the loss of its position in the eastern Mediterranean, it has become necessary for Britain to maintain its position in the western Mediterranean. However, Britain will learn that neutral countries are now unwilling to tolerate British economic dictatorship. An editorial in the "German General Review" stated that the British Navy is no longer able to implement a blockade of the German-controlled coast because its warships are not sufficiently distributed to perform other tasks. The British government has therefore decided to withdraw warships from the dangerous areas of Europe and replace them with consular officials from neutral countries overseas to conduct its "blockade without war danger." Today, Britain's adoption of this measure directly indicates its inability to do anything. Because Britain cannot win simply by preventing transportation to Spain, it is an extremely obvious fact. In view of the repeated successes of German submarines, torpedo boats, and bombers in attacking British merchant ships, especially the approximately 300,000 tons of enemy cargo destroyed by Germany in recent days, which is the most prominent, Britain will suffer even greater blows. Britain speculates that blockading Continental Europe can cause famine on the Continent, but we dare to guarantee that those suffering famine will not be Continental Europe but the British Isles because Britain's position is now desperate. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

### Demonstration in Helsinki; Has Communist Undertones

Helsinki. Recently, a large number of citizens in this city held a demonstration, which had a strong communist undertone. The participating workers submitted their names and attempted to gather in front of the Soviet embassy, but were stopped by the military police. The Finnish government ordered the dissolution of the Communist Party in 1930. The communist-style demonstration that occurred today is unprecedented in the past ten years. (30th Havana Telegraph)

### Severe Earthquake in Turkey

Istanbul. According to received reports, the earthquake in Turkey the day before yesterday claimed as many as 1,200 lives. The disaster is extremely severe. The Anatolian earthquake occurred between 3:00 AM and 3:30 AM on the 30th of last month. Ankara and Istanbul were also shaken. Yuqiate has been completely reduced to ruins. Temm, Aisijingi, Niqi, and Meizifen have also suffered significant losses. Terrified residents ran around everywhere. Many women and children were killed or injured. The Turkish government and the Turkish Red Crescent have sent personnel to the disaster area for relief. (One-day Huitong Telegraph)

## Page 7

### The Consular Body Will Hold Another Meeting Today to Discuss Stopping Terrorist Acts, Authorizing the Bureau to Take Necessary Measures, and Requesting Foreign Defense Forces to Assist in Patrols, with a Resolution to Be Announced Immediately After Passing

Following the repeated terrorist incidents within the Settlement, and in order to curb such political violence and maintain peace within the Settlement, Mr. Edward Fessenden, Chairman of the Shanghai Municipal Council (SMC), sent a letter to the Consular Body on the 20th of last month, requesting cooperation in putting an end to these events. Mr. Hill, the Danish Consul-General and Dean of the Consular Corps, convened consuls from various countries stationed in Shanghai on the 25th of last month to discuss the matter. However, due to numerous constraints, the meeting, although lasting three hours, did not reach any agreement. Therefore, it was rescheduled for another meeting today. According to inquiries made to the SMC yesterday, the meeting will still be held in the SMC Board Room, and the time remains 3:30 PM. Furthermore, according to well-informed sources, consuls from various countries in this port all agreed to cooperate in maintaining peace within the Settlement and are actively planning various effective measures to prevent rioters from infiltrating the Settlement, especially regarding the defense of the western part of Shanghai. In addition to the Police Department making every effort, the foreign defense forces stationed in Shanghai have also decided to provide strong assistance. However, many believe that Japanese Consul-General Miura will still raise some issues during today's meeting.

Consulate Officials Remain Silent

According to the English-language "China Press", the Consular Body of this city will hold a second meeting tomorrow (the 2nd) in response to the appeal issued by Mr. Edward Fessenden, Chairman of the SMC, two weeks ago to curb terrorist activities in Shanghai. When reporters inquired with consulate officials stationed in Shanghai about this matter, they all remained silent. However, reliable sources say that when the Consular Body holds a meeting at 3:30 PM tomorrow afternoon in the SMC Board Room, it will reach a definite resolution.

Granting Special Privileges and Implementing Strict Measures

The steps to be taken by the consuls are to grant special privileges to the SMC so that the Police Department can strictly enforce curfews. Other suggestions, such as building barriers and blocking bad elements, are also expected to be approved by the Consular Body. Another anticipated step is to specifically request the foreign military commanders to assist the Shanghai Municipal Police in patrolling. According to reports, tomorrow's Consular Body meeting will be chaired by Mr. Hill, the Danish Consul-General and Acting Dean of the Consular Corps.

Resolution to Be Announced Immediately After Passing

Mr. Lange, Secretary of the Consular Body, stated to Western reporters after the last meeting, "The various issues discussed in this meeting are currently not intended to be made public. They will be announced after the actual resolution is passed next week." Therefore, after the various proposals are passed in today's meeting, they should be made public.

### Zhang Sixu Memorial Fund and Carlson's Will Have Exceeded 10,000 Yuan

Since the assassination of Mr. Zhang Sixu, a director of the China Press, people from all walks of life, recognizing Zhang's commitment to justice during his lifetime and his dedication to his national and ethnic duties, have generously donated to create a memorial fund for Zhang. This fund has been decided to be transferred to the widow of Mr. Carlson, a Pole, as a consolation fund, as Mr. Carlson died at the same time as Zhang when he acted bravely in the face of the assassination. The fixed amount of the fund was originally 10,000 yuan, but it has now exceeded this amount. Although the fund committee has announced its closure, many donations continue to pour in. As of the day before yesterday, the total amount of the donation has reached 10,464.5 yuan.

### O'Malley's Candid Statement: Firm Belief in Legal Order, Unwilling to Participate in Political Activities, Opposing Terrorism and Assassination

Yesterday, this newspaper, "Shen Bao", published extremely critical reports against Mr. O'Malley and Jiang Yiping, who were "expelled" and "wanted." A reporter from the Central News Agency visited Mr. O'Malley yesterday afternoon to inquire about his thoughts and views. According to him, he was not interested in the reports in "Shen Bao" and decided to ignore the expulsion order issued by Nanjing. He stated that he is a lawyer and is determined not to participate in political activities, as it was in the past, is now, and will be in the future. As for "Shen Bao", which he presides over, it will report truthfully and report the true situation of society to the citizens. It is definitely not a propaganda tool for any party. This policy will never change. Finally, Mr. O'Malley also issued a written statement: "I do not participate in politics. Even when I was nominated as a candidate for the Municipal Council, I clearly declared that I am not a politician, and I still stand by that. At that time, I stated that I am a firm believer in law and order, and that remains unchanged. I do not believe in terrorism, nor do I believe in assassination. No matter which political party or faction uses this method, it is inappropriate."

The Report in the Japanese Newspaper Is Not True

A paper in the Japanese-language "Continental News" on Wednesday (31st) stated that Mr. Edward Fessenden, Chairman of the SMC, is considering whether American director of the SMC, Mr. O'Malley, should continue to serve in his position. Mr. O'Malley himself declared that he believes this report is not true. When the reporter asked Mr. Fessenden about this, Mr. Fessenden declined to comment.

American Public Opinion Attaches Great Importance

Mr. Woodhead, a famous current affairs observer, commented on the terrorist incidents in Shanghai in the August issue of the "Far Eastern Review" monthly, believing that the current "wave of terror" is one of the most terrible consequences of the Sino-Japanese War. This bloody struggle, due to the constant activities of the "pro-Japanese" and "anti-Japanese" factions, each with its supporting background, is no longer a purely local issue. Since the "Shen Bao" bombing, the assassination of Zhang Sixu, the humiliation of Apong, and the news of the "expulsion" of six Americans spread to the United States, the American people have been greatly disturbed. American newspapers pointed out that these events are not accidental coincidences, so they cannot be regarded as the actions of an irresponsible criminal. The Japanese authorities clearly know that if incidents involving Americans continue to occur in the future, it will cause serious problems between the Japanese and American governments. In addition, British and American public opinion also expressed their dissatisfaction with anti-Japanese terrorist acts.

The Rumor of 87 People's Actions

According to the "Shanghai Evening Post and Mercury," the "Shanghai Special Municipal Government" is said to have "ordered" a police station in the suburbs of Shanghai to assist the Nanjing "regime" in arresting 87 Chinese people in this port who are "wanted." The "crime" of these 87 people is obstructing the "peace movement." However, it is heard that the Nanjing "new regime" does not want to bring many of them to "justice," because some of them have recently expressed their withdrawal from political activities and do not participate in matters that are beneficial to the "new government." It is also known that when the "wanted list" was published, some of the people listed were not in Shanghai, and others had left Shanghai for other places after the "wanted list" was published. For example, Mr. Tao Leqin, secretary of the Chinese Ratepayers' Association in the Public Concession, is one of them.

### A Huge Bomb Was Found in the Machine Room of the "China Press"

Fortunately, It Was Discovered Early and Did Not Explode, The Russian Constable on Duty Disappeared Yesterday Morning

The "China Press" at 264 Rue A. E. F., near the Catholic Church, is now in extraordinary times. The French Police Department has stationed an armored vehicle at the printing factory of the newspaper and sent Russian and Vietnamese detectives to provide protection in the surrounding area. In addition, a Russian constable, carrying a submachine gun, is stationed at the left corner of the church.

Has Been a While

At 5:30 yesterday morning, the Russian constable on duty at 264 Rue A. E. F. claimed that he wanted to go to the toilet, so he went to the toilet downstairs in the newspaper. Shortly afterwards, he watched the printing workers working next to the machine room of the newspaper for 20 minutes. The constable claimed that it was time for his shift change and went outside immediately. Unexpectedly, when the French constable who was supposed to take over arrived at the scene around 6:00, the Russian constable had already disappeared.

Has Disappeared

He immediately reported to the Xiaolan Police Department, which conducted a large-scale search, but to no avail. Unexpectedly, around 9:00, a hand grenade of about a foot long was suddenly found in the machine room of the newspaper. The discovery was made when workers continued to print the supplementary pages of the English-language "China Press." They suddenly discovered a package wrapped in

Stained With Oil

The workers intended to move it, but because the object was unusually heavy, they knew it must be a dangerous item. They reported it to the police, who sent officers to investigate. Inside the paper package was indeed a hand grenade, which was immediately removed and thoroughly investigated.

### Typhoon Enters the Sea, Customs Removes Signals

After a Pacific typhoon passed over the Ryukyu Islands and moved rapidly towards Shanghai, it was only 110 nautical miles from Shanghai on the evening of the day before yesterday. Whirlwinds and rainstorms occurred in this port all day long. The Jianghai Customs specially hung two black balls on the roof of the Bund to warn ships to stop entering and leaving.

Passing Huadao Mountain

Between 3:30 and 4:00 before dawn yesterday morning, the center of the typhoon began to pass over Huadao Mountain outside the Wusongkou. The wind was strong in this port. At that time, there were eight gales in the Huangpu River. After the typhoon passed Huadao Mountain, the wind direction turned to north-northwest. At 6:00 yesterday morning, it had reached 32.5 degrees north latitude and 121 degrees east longitude. The center of the gale was within 60 nautical miles. According to the report, the typhoon has crossed the north of Shanghai and is only 80 nautical miles away from the Yellow Sea. The Jianghai Customs then removed one black ball at 9:00 yesterday morning.

Entering the Sea in the Afternoon

The observatory later reported at 2:00 PM that the typhoon had reached 34 degrees north latitude and 121 degrees east longitude, heading north-northwest. The gale had weakened. According to the report, the typhoon has reached the vicinity of Haizhou in the Yellow Sea and is continuing to move forward into the Yellow Sea. The distance is far away. The Jianghai Customs completely removed the black balls from 2:00 PM yesterday. At this point, the threat of the typhoon to this port has been completely lifted, and ships can enter and leave as usual.

Ships Resuming Navigation

The Taikoo Company's Haikou ship and Jardine Matheson's Guisheng and Yongsheng ships, which had not left the port due to the wind, left the port one after another yesterday afternoon. The Qingyuan and Chongqing ships, which were anchored at Wusongkou the day before yesterday, also set sail. Only the Da Xin Jiu of the Japanese-owned Toa Kaiun Company's Yangtze River line entered the port yesterday, arriving at 12:55 noon yesterday and docked at the Qiujiang Wharf. Jardine Matheson's Yusheng ship is coming to Shanghai from Haiphong and Hong Kong and is expected to arrive today, but the exact time is unknown.

### Never Give Up Police Power on Roads Outside the Settlement

According to the English-language "China Press," a spokesman for the SMC recently told reporters that the joint police force composed of the SMC and the "Municipal Government" in the area of roads outside the Settlement was previously expected to be established within this month. In fact, the police force will not be established until Police Commissioner Major Bown returns to Shanghai in early September. Major Bown is currently on six weeks' leave in Weihaiwei and a police agreement can only be signed after he returns to Shanghai. The spokesman also said that the gradual reduction of Shanghai Municipal Police stationed in the area of roads outside the Settlement is not an indication that the SMC will abandon its position in that area. According to observers who claimed that the SMC may abandon its powers in the area of roads outside the Settlement in order to allow Shanghai to obtain a more satisfactory situation, the number of Concession police in the area of roads outside the Settlement has recently decreased, while the number of "Municipal Police" has increased, especially near Hongqiao and the Wujiaochang of Avenue Edward VII.

### Japanese Restrictions on Inland Trade, American Chamber of Commerce Takes Measures, Sends Letters to Members to Protest to the Consul General, So That It Can Be Forwarded to the US Government

According to the "Continental Daily News," the American Chamber of Commerce in this city yesterday (31st) sent letters to its members, asking them to immediately protest to the US Consul General stationed in Shanghai against the Japanese restrictions on trade between Shanghai and the Chinese mainland, so that the US Consul can forward the protest to Washington. American merchants or firms who do not want to file a formal protest should report the impact of Japanese restrictions on their business to the US Consul, because these restrictions have made it impossible for American importers to transport their goods from Shanghai to the Chinese mainland. All American merchants whose trade has been subjected to any restrictions or obstructions that have been implemented or are about to be implemented should follow the above method. The American Chamber of Commerce also asked members to notify the US Consul of the progress of consultations or solutions obtained by directly consulting with "relevant parties" at any time.

### Japanese Inspectors Stationed at the Masnan Road Post Office Yesterday Morning, All Postal Inspection Procedures Have Been Completed, The Official Start Date of Postal Inspection Is Undetermined

The Japanese are carrying out inspections of mail in the French Concession, sending personnel to arrange everything at the Masnan Road Post Office branch. They have been reviewing letters and consulting with postal workers about office procedures for several days, seemingly with the arrow already on the string and an inevitable outcome. The situation yesterday was as follows:

Situation of Stationing

Mr. Wang Weisheng, the assistant director of the Postal Administration Bureau, officially published the following points: (1) Director Jin of the Masnan Road branch sent a written notice to the General Bureau around 3:00 PM, stating that the general situation was the same as in the previous few days, so it cannot be considered that the inspection has officially started. There may have been instances of reviewing letters, but only when the inspectors arrive at the bureau at a set time to perform their work, just as with the complete format of inspections in the General Bureau, can it be considered that the inspection has officially started. (2) At 8:30 yesterday morning, seven Japanese inspectors, led by a Japanese person proficient in Chinese, went to the Masnan Road Post Office and met with Director Jin in his office. After presenting their credentials, the Japanese lined up and bowed three times to Director Jin and exchanged pleasantries for 15 minutes before leaving, completing the "official stationing" ceremony. It is heard that the seven Japanese personnel were dispatched by the Japanese Inspection Office of the Postal Administration and are directly under its control. Except for simply notifying Director Jin, they have the right to act freely in all their actions.

Reviewing Letters

Since the Postal Administration Bureau notified the Masnan Road branch of the various procedures for inspecting mail the day before yesterday, the branch immediately followed them one by one. For example, the receipt book signed by the Japanese inspectors after detaining mail has already been printed and given to the Japanese inspectors for use. The counter for "inter-district exchange of mail" has also been moved closer to the Japanese's desk for them to place mail into after inspection. All the mail inspection procedures have been completed after several days of rush work, but the walls and renovations of their office are still in progress and will not be completed in a few days. After completing the stationing ceremony, some of the Japanese inspectors immediately took up temporary desks, while others entered the mail room and reviewed the various letters waiting to be delivered, including regular, express, and registered mail, and frequently copied the names and addresses of the recipients with pens and paper, but stopped after less than an hour. Then, the group sat around chatting. None of the letters were cut open and inspected. The group left the bureau before 12:00. At around 1:00 PM, the seven Japanese inspectors went to the bureau again, and one more Japanese person wearing a handgun joined them, attracting much attention, but they left together after sitting idly for an hour and did not return until evening.

Registered Mail

In the past few days, the Japanese inspectors only flipped through ordinary mail in one corner of the regular mail section and never lingered in the registered and express mail sections. However, this was not the case yesterday. They reviewed express and registered mail one by one, intending to interfere. The branch director has also complied with the order to prepare a reception and registration book for both parties to register and sign when mail is detained, but no mail has been detained. The postal authorities do not acknowledge the mail inspection either. As for the bureau's telegraph transmissions, they have long been under Japanese inspection and there is no need for re-inspection. The rumor that it will also be inspected is not true. Mr. Chapline, the postal director, has completed his public duties in Chongqing and is scheduled to return to Shanghai on the Jardine Matheson's Yusheng ship this morning. The ship could have arrived yesterday, but was delayed by one day due to the typhoon.

### The Battle at Zhenhai Port Intensifies, Japanese Warships Fire to Attempt Landing, Chinese Artillery Pummels and Prevents Them

The Ningbo Shanghai Associations yesterday received various reports from Zhenhai after its recovery. The telegraph reports are as follows: (1) At around 5:00 yesterday morning, two Japanese warships were cruising outside Zhenhai Port. One of them fired more than 30 shells at the fortress, but the shells all fell into the mud and caused no damage. Also, at 8:00 AM, the sound of artillery was heard outside Zhenhai Port, and the sound of artillery was also heard from Hengshan. (2) At 5:00 yesterday morning, three Japanese warships outside Zhenhai Port fired more than 60 shells at the Zhenhai fortress area. Our army immediately returned fire with artillery. The sound of artillery had not stopped when the telegram was sent. (3) At 3:30 AM the day before yesterday, a Japanese warship outside Zhenhai Port fired more than 30 shells aimlessly at our fortress area. The Japanese warship then released two small motorboats loaded with Japanese soldiers attempting to land in Jiangnan to test our defenses. Our army immediately fired artillery and machine guns, and the Japanese boats could not withstand the attack and fled back to the warship. (4) At 5:50 PM the day before yesterday, two Japanese warships sailed to the Hengshan waters. One of them sailed east from Qijiao. (5) Also, at around 7:00 AM the day before yesterday, a Japanese plane was discovered in the airspace over Shipu, flying from southeast to northeast. Ningbo immediately issued an emergency alert. The Japanese plane then flew over Cixi, Yin County, Fenghua, Ningbo, and out to sea. (6) At 25 minutes past yesterday morning, the sound of planes was heard in Longshan, and Ningbo immediately issued an air raid alert and an emergency alert. However, the number and direction of the plane were unknown. The alert was lifted at 8:56.

### A Bomb Was Discovered in Front of the Jardine Matheson Building, Fortunately, It Did Not Explode

According to the English-language "China Press," at 8:00 AM one day (today), a unexploded hand grenade was found in front of the Jardine Matheson building at 27 The Bund by a Concession patrol. Part of the grenade was wrapped in Chinese newspapers. It is believed that the grenade was discarded by someone hiding it out of fear of a police search.

### The Second Batch of Evacuated Women and Children from Hong Kong Decided to Transport to Australia, Unremitting Wartime Preparations, Defense Measures Taken Step by Step

Hong Kong continues to prepare for wartime without the slightest懈懈 slackening. The evacuation of the elderly, weak, women, and children continues. The second batch of women and children, chartered a large ship, is scheduled to be transported to Australia at the beginning of this month. This registration is still compulsory. Exemptions are granted only to those who meet the following qualifications: (1) Any woman who has no children in Hong Kong, or has a job in Hong Kong, or serves in various government agencies, and can obtain a certificate from the agency leader that the work is important and there is a real need to stay in Hong Kong; (2) Those who are preparing to leave Hong Kong immediately; (3) Those who have medical proof that they are currently unfit to travel. The authorities also stipulated that by the first half of August, the total number of evacuations, including the previous one, will reach 250,000 people. As for the Governor of Hong Kong, Sir Geoffrey Northcote, who left Hong Kong for a reason, the British government appointed Major General Noel Irwin to temporarily assume the duties of Governor. Irwin immediately issued an order to rectify all land, sea, and air defenses in Hong Kong upon taking office. As for the entire defense plan, it was formulated long ago by General Gammell, Commander-in-Chief of the British Forces in China. It can be decided as soon as Irwin takes office. The plan is purely a necessary measure for Britain in wartime. In addition, in preparation for wartime military use, pigeon registration is also implemented. Residents who raise pigeons must register in accordance with the regulations.

### Japanese Troops in Hongqiao Conducted Exercises for Several Days

According to the "Continental Daily News," the Hongqiao Westerners' Association recently announced that the Japanese Army in western Shanghai will conduct live-fire exercises near the Hongqiao Airfield from the 1st to the 3rd of this month, from 9:00 AM to 4:00 PM every day. Pedestrians should not travel on Beifang Road and beyond for safety.

### Qian Hongye Was Murdered, Chairman Chiang Kai-shek Sent a Condolence Message

Chongqing, 31st - Qian Hongye, the criminal court president of the Shanghai First Special District Court, was murdered in Shanghai. Chairman Chiang Kai-shek sent a special telegram to his family to express his condolences. The original telegram is as follows: "To the family of Court President Qian Hongye of Shanghai, I was shocked to learn of Court President Qian's murder and death in Shanghai. I am angry at the rampant demons and grieve over the loss of such a virtuous person. I send my deep condolences from afar. I hope you can restrain your grief and inherit his legacy, further encourage righteousness, and look forward to avenging the country. Special telegram to express condolences. Chiang Chung-cheng."

## Page 8

### Three Chinese Detectives of the Public Concession Were Arrested by the Japanese Military Police, Japanese Intervened When Detectives Captured a Thief, Guns Were Seized and Handcuffs Were Added

According to the English-language "China Press" this evening (today), a robbery occurred at No. 609, Lane 541, Yuan Road, at 12:40 PM today. The Jing'an Temple Police Station received a report and immediately dispatched detectives to surround the house where the robbery occurred and arrest one of the armed robbers. The "Municipal Police" also assisted at the scene. Suddenly, several Japanese military police, led by an officer, arrived at the scene and ordered the public concession detectives to leave. Seeing that there were three Chinese detectives, each holding a handgun and wearing a steel wire vest, they ordered the Japanese military police to seize the guns of the three Chinese detectives and handcuff them, and then escorted the three detectives and the arrested robber away. However, according to reliable information obtained by this newspaper last night, the three arrested Chinese detectives were released and returned to the police station at 4:45 PM yesterday afternoon.

### After the Sudden Rise in Rice Prices, the Rice Industry's Attitude Was Judged by Outsiders, The Rice Sale Decision Was Temporarily Suspended for Ten Days

The Fair Price Committee held a standing committee meeting yesterday, stating that the fair price sale had lasted for ten days as of the 4th of this month, and all rice shops selling at fair prices should be replaced. It was approved to suspend the fair price sale for ten days from the 4th of this month, and it was scheduled to continue from the 15th of this month. The rice merchants' tea party market recognized that the recent rise in rice prices was due to outsiders dominating the market. Therefore, in the future, representatives of the respective shops must submit their entry certificates when entering the market to do business, and all transactions must be completed on order forms, so that outsiders cannot intervene and the root cause can be eliminated.

### The Water and Electricity Labor Strike, The Bureau Is Watching Closely, The Industrial Section Does Not Decline Mediation, Staff Submit Four Guarantees

After Mr. Yu Qiaqing took on the mediation of the labor strike at the British-owned Water and Electricity Company and the company put forward counter-demands, leading to a failure in negotiations, the Industrial Section of the Shanghai Municipal Council (SMC) expressed its willingness to mediate again. The Bureau is also paying close attention to this labor strike. If the stalemate continues, the Bureau will decide to take

Certain Steps

to eliminate this incident, which affects social order. According to Mr. Gu Bingyuan of the Industrial Section of the SMC, the insistence of both parties on their demands has led to a stalemate in this labor strike. Although I have tried my best to mediate, it has been ineffective. I now hope that both parties will come forward sincerely and apply for mediation, and I will certainly not decline to serve, so that this labor strike can be resolved as soon as possible. It was later learned from the reporter's inquiries yesterday afternoon that Mr. Gu Bingyuan had exchanged preliminary views with the staff of the company, but the content has not yet reached the stage of publication. In order for the outside world to understand their plight, the staff published

Written Opinion

as follows: "The following four guarantees are generated by the company's requirement for staff to guarantee that there will be no strike behavior in the future. Therefore, if the company abandons this guarantee to the staff, then the following four guarantees are not valid at all." (1) The company should be considerate of the current difficult times and implement the treatment methods for Chinese staff in the SMC or Shanghai Electric Power Company in 1940 for all Chinese staff. (2) Staff shall not be dismissed without reason. (3) Restore the personnel situation before the work-to-rule. (4) Wages during the work-to-rule period will be paid as usual. Accumulated events are willing to make up as much as possible outside of normal office hours.

### The Guiyang Red Cross Village Was Tragically Destroyed by Bombing, Fortunately, the Patients Were Evacuated, So There Were Very Few Casualties

According to the "Continental Daily News," the Shanghai American Relief Agency (night of the 31st) received a delayed message stating that the hospital with 600 beds and the plastic surgery department in the Red Cross Village outside Guiyang City were bombed by the Japanese on July 28. On July 9, Japanese reconnaissance planes had visited the village and thoroughly reconnoitered the Chinese Medical Group and the Red Cross Hospital, apparently taking photos. After receiving news of the Japanese plane's reconnaissance, the relief agency in this city telegraphed the Guiyang authorities, requesting them to evacuate the patients in the hospital as soon as possible. Guiyang immediately complied, so when the village was finally bombed by Japanese planes on July 28, there were very few patients in the hospital and casualties were expected to be minimal. The houses and ambulances in the village were all painted with red crosses for protection. The Guiyang authorities now believe that this may be a faulty protection method.

### After the Dredging Vessels Were Returned, Dredging Is Imminent, Still Supervised by Chief Engineer Xu, But Managed by the Shanghai Consular Body

According to the English-language "China Press," a member of the Dredging Bureau told reporters this morning (the 1st) that almost all of the vessels and equipment of the Dredging Bureau occupied by the Japanese authorities in this city have been returned, so the Bureau can

Fully Resume Work in Early September. After a month of surveying the Huangpu River in the Zhoujiazui section of Pudong, Bureau personnel have already begun preliminary dredging there about last week. It is reported that the repairing of the mud dredger "Construction" is nearing completion and the engine is expected to be tested in mid-September, and then enter the dock for a final inspection. It is heard that when the Dredging Bureau

Resumes Normal

Work, the supervision matters will still be handled by Chief Engineer Xu, but will be managed by the Shanghai Consular Body.

### Inauguration Ceremony of the Shaoxing Regional Disaster Relief Entertainment Fair Held Yesterday Afternoon

Shaoxing Seven Counties Association and the Shaoxing Regional Disaster Relief Fundraising Committee jointly organized the "Entertainment Fundraising Fair," which officially opened yesterday at 1:00 PM at the Carlton Grand Theatre. Mr. Yu Qiaqing and Mr. Wen Lanting unveiled the opening ceremony. First, Chairman Pei Yunqing delivered the opening speech. Mr. Yuan and Mr. Huang Yuzhai gave separate speeches, mainly stating that Shaoxing's various cities and counties are not rice-producing areas and rely entirely on the assistance of neighboring provinces and cities. Since the war, the source of supply has been interrupted, and merchants hoard, causing frequent rice price increases. Coupled with severe drought disasters, millions of refugees are crying out for food. Now, on behalf of the disaster victims, they hope that the kind people present will generously donate and jointly participate in this public undertaking. Afterward, the orchestra on stage played a sorrowful tune. Mr. Yu and Mr. Wen slowly unveiled the backdrop from the left and right sides, and there was a burst of applause. Photos were taken to commemorate the event. Regarding the entertainment fair held by the association, in addition to the women's Yue Opera grand performance on the first and second days, all ticket sales will be used to fund disaster relief in the seven counties of Shaoxing. The ticket sales on the third and fourth days will be entirely used to support the Shanghai-Shaoxing Relief Association in providing porridge, emergency relief, and purchasing medicine. The presidium of the association has already appointed Zhu Chengzhu, Wu Xingzhai, Xu Limin, Wu Rongqing, and others.

### Lishui Ship Sailing from Hong Kong to Shanghai Was Detained Midway

According to a report from the British authorities in Shanghai yesterday morning, the British Jardine Matheson & Co.'s Lishui ship, sailing from Hong Kong to Shanghai, encountered a hurricane en route and temporarily anchored in a coastal shelter. Suddenly, it was detained by a warship there from 7:00 AM to 10:30 AM, for three and a half hours, before being allowed to leave. The British authorities in Shanghai did not disclose the true identity of the warship. It is reported that the Lishui ship is a 1,655-ton regular liner, traveling between Hong Kong and Shanghai, and its owner is Mr. Stoneham.

### Swiss Nationals Commemorated National Day Yesterday

Yesterday was the 649th Swiss National Day anniversary. Swiss nationals in Shanghai, given the current volatile international situation, did not want to make a lavish display. They only held a quiet commemorative ceremony inside the Swiss Consulate at 9 the Bund. The Swiss Consul-General gave a short speech. In the evening, besides private banquets and celebrations among the Swiss community, there were no other activities. The Swiss Consulate was closed for the day as usual.

### Bloodshed in Zhaojiadu: Ding Junfeng Was Attacked with an Axe, Assailants Broke into Bedroom in the Early Morning, Critically Wounded after Four Fierce Blows

Near Caojiadu in western Shanghai, around 6:30 AM yesterday morning, a sudden axe attack occurred. The victim was Ding Junfeng, a former employee of the Central Mint. He was struck four times in the shoulder and face, and the assailant fled the scene with the axe, leaving no trace. The details of the incident are as follows:

Sweet Dreams Interrupted

Ding Junfeng, from Anhui, is 32 years old and resides at No. 70, Cunshan Lane, east of Wujiaochang in western Shanghai. He previously worked at the Central Mint in Shanghai, but his current occupation is unknown. Around 6:30 AM yesterday morning, while Mr. Ding was sound asleep, two uninvited guests suddenly arrived at No. 70.

Axe Strikes Suddenly

They broke into the upstairs apartment, forced open the bedroom door, and without explanation, pulled out an axe and struck Ding Junfeng, who was lying in bed, four times. He was struck once on the left shoulder, once on the face, and once on each arm. The wounds were large and about an inch deep. Blood splattered everywhere, and the situation was severe. The assailants, seeing that their goal was achieved, retreated downstairs with their weapon and disappeared without a trace. Ding's wife and daughter witnessed the scene but, under threat, dared not speak out. They only recognized the faces and clothing of the assailants.

Life in Grave Danger

They reported the situation to the police station, who rushed to investigate. They summoned an ambulance and took the injured Mr. Ding to the Second Branch of Tongren Hospital on Bailinan Road for treatment. It is reported that Ding's injuries are serious, and he has lost too much blood. His life is in grave danger. Whether the axe attack on Ding was a revenge killing remains to be investigated.

### Lawsuit over Estate of Hardware Merchant Qian Yiying Concludes, Court Awaits Judgment

Qian Yiying, from Ningbo, co-owned a hardware store. He had a wife, Chen, but she had no children. So, he married a woman from the same town, Wang, as his second wife, and they had one son and two daughters. After Chen died, Qian had an affair with a woman named Ren at No. 14, Xin Yong'an Street in Shanghai. He died of illness last November 12th. His considerable estate fell into Ren's hands. Recently, Qian's second wife, Wang, filed a suit in the civil court, which ordered Ren to hand over the estate for distribution. However, Ren has not complied. Therefore, she hired lawyer Chen Wencan to file a complaint with the criminal division of the Second Special Court, accusing Ren and Wang Guixiang (accountant at Yudaheng Sugar Firm, No. 44, Xiaodongmen Road) and Qian Qigao (manager of Ruichang Hardware Store, No. 12, Xin Yong'an Street) of conspiring to embezzle Qian Yiying's estate. Judge Yuan from the court heard the case the other day. Both sides debated the issues of identity for a long time. Liu, in criminal accusations of embezzlement, each insisted on their own version. After questioning both sides in detail, the judge ordered them to debate and then announced the conclusion of the hearing, awaiting judgment.

### Hu Kaiwen Tang Yuanji Brush Shop Must Not Use the Word "Old" Again

Zhu Renguan (Hu Zhiyuan), the owner of the Lao Hu Kaiwen Tang Yuanji Brush Shop at No. 170, Shandong Road, was sued by Hu Hongkai, the owner of the Lao Hu Kaiwen Guanghushi Ink Shop at No. 471, Henan Road, to stop using the trade name. A settlement has now been reached. Zhu Renguan's use of the "Lao Hu Kaiwen Tang" horizontal plaque, signboard, stamps, etc., should be changed to "Hu Kaiwen Tang Yuanji" in the future and must never be prefixed with the word "Lao" again. If there is any violation, the defendant shall be liable for damages. A trade name lawsuit has thus come to an end.

### Robber Arrested, Committed Dozens of Crimes in the French Concession, Seized Watches Awaiting Claimants

Ye Dingkang, from Ningbo, is 31 years old and specializes in robbing pedestrians of their watches in areas such as Avenue Foch, Rue Paul Beau, Rue du Marché, Avenue Hoche, Avenue Dubail, Huanghe Road, etc., in the French Concession, committing no fewer than dozens of crimes. The police dispatched detectives to hunt him down, but Ye was too alert and evaded capture. It wasn't until 10:00 AM on the 30th of last month that he was arrested on Avenue Foch. More than a dozen men's and women's watches were seized. Yesterday afternoon, Ye was sent to the Criminal Division of the Second Special Court. Because the investigation was not complete, Judge Li Weishan briefly questioned him and ordered a postponement for further questioning in ten days. The defendant was detained. As for the seized stolen goods, it is hoped that the victims will provide detailed information about the location of the incident and the brand of the watches and contact Detective Ma Yizhi and Shao Guanrong of the Foreign Affairs Section of the Second Division of the Lujiazui Central Police Station to claim them.

### Social Miscellany

Chen Changlin, a notorious robber from Yancheng, Jiangbei, along with Gu Afu (who has already been convicted) and Zhang Acai (who is still at large), specialized in robbing cotton yarn worth considerable value from rickshaws and shared the proceeds. After the case was uncovered, it was investigated and apprehended by the Chinese and foreign detectives of the Gordon Road Police Station and handed over to the First Special District Court. After a clear confession, Judge Huang Risheng sentenced Chen Changlin to five years in prison yesterday morning as a warning.

Based on a tip, the Central Police Station arrested five suspected thieves from Tongzhou, Cao Wuyan, Yan Hechang, Yin Haichang, Wu Xiaoyun, and He Longbin, at No. 118, Guangxi Road, and a small inn on Rue Lan Wei'ai in the French Concession the night before last. Two real and fake pistols were seized. Yesterday, they were handed over to the First Special Court for detention.

Lin Guixiang, a woman from Ningbo, was arrested by the Laozha Police Station for colluding with Qian Afa in setting up a brothel at No. 762, Jiujiang Road, and forcing young girls Qian Ahua and Xu Cailian to engage in prostitution for profit. Yesterday, Judge Feng of the First Special Court sentenced Lin Guixiang to five months in prison for intending to profit from forcing young girls to engage in prostitution. Qian Afa was found not guilty. Near Jing'an Temple Road and Daxilu Road, around 7:00 AM yesterday morning, a public bus of Route 2 struck a local man, Tan Fugen (in his forties), who was knocked to the ground. He suffered severe head injuries and was later taken to the Red Cross Hospital by ambulance for treatment.

Around 2:00 PM yesterday afternoon, a public bus of Route 17 ran over a man in his twenties on Anhsi Temple Road, breaking his sternum and killing him on the spot. The deceased was wearing black silk clothes and sneakers.

At noon yesterday, robbers suddenly entered No. 51, Dade Lane, Chengdu Road, with box guns and carried out a robbery. However, their plan was discovered, and the nearby police were notified. They rushed to arrest them and managed to capture one robber and seize a box gun.

Around 7:00 AM yesterday morning, five robbers with two handguns robbed a cigarette shop at No. 980, Huade Road, Hongkou, taking away 100 yuan in cash and fleeing. One robber fired a shot into the air as a warning.

### Follow-up on the Bombing Incident on Fuxing Road

The details of the bombing incident at No. 80, Lane 100, Fuxing Road, in the French Concession have been reported in detail. It is now reported that the two bombs that exploded were wooden-handled grenades. Afterward, the police also seized three similar bombs, three basin guns, and three handguns. The residents of the third floor were Wang Qi, Shen Bo, and a young girl, who had all left before the incident.

### International Sanatorium Opened Yesterday

The International Sanatorium, located at the intersection of Weihaiwei Road and Mahua Road in Weihaiwei New Village, officially opened yesterday. The opening ceremony was presided over by Yu Qiaqing, Wen Lanting, Xu Jiqing, Lin Kanghou, Yuan Ludeng, Fang Jiaobo, and Huang Yuzhai. Five or six hundred dignitaries attended to offer their congratulations. Director Tu Qihua and Tu Kaizheng of Xinyao Company respectively received and guided the visitors.

### Painter Fan Boyan Returns to Shanghai

The veteran painter Fan Haolin, known as Shaoyun, has enjoyed a reputation in the art world for over forty years. His son, Boyan, is a handsome young man who has deeply inherited his father's mantle. His works are detached, profound, and unconventional. He recently traveled to North China and was highly praised by famous artists such as Qi Baishi and Pu Xuesai. Mr. Fan, due to a backlog of painting supplies in the south, could not stay long and returned to Shanghai the other day.

### Wankang Company Opens

Wankang Company, located at Room 446, 6th Floor, Securities Building, Jiujiang Road, is solely owned and operated by Qiu Changyin, a major merchant of pigments. Yesterday was the opening day of the company, and guests from all walks of life came to offer their congratulations. It is reported that the business of all departments and the opening of accounts were very active that day.

### Publishing News

The international situation has become a prairie fire. To understand the world situation, as well as general cultural ideas and lifestyles, one must read "Tianxia Shi" bi-monthly magazine. The magazine has now published its thirteenth issue, with rich and exciting content, and is unanimously praised as the best reading material.

Cosmos Wind has published its twenty-seventh issue, which is already available. Highlights include Feng Zikai's Teacher's Diary, Chen Yixian's Record of the Translation School, Zhao Jingshen's Novel Anecdotes, Tang Tao's Historical Prophecy, and Wu Jingxiong's Four Seasons of Tang Poetry, which are all very exciting.

The combined July-August issue of the fourth year of the Sino-Foreign Economic Extracts Monthly has now been published. This issue contains a detailed survey report on the emerging industries in the Southwest, a systematic description of China's wartime economic construction, various views of the Japanese on legal tender, and estimates of the Japanese on China's reserves and war expenses. Each article has surprising news. All bookstores and magazine companies sell it on consignment.

China's only "Brewing Magazine" quarterly, the fifth issue has been published, divided into treatises, research, investigations, statistics, miscellany, literature, etc., written by experts Xu Wangzhi, Zhu Mei, Sun Wei, Zeng Zhaolun, etc., expounding on scientific brewing without omission. Shanghai New World West Zhangyu Brewing Company is the general distributor.

### Weather Report

The Xujiahui Observatory issued the following weather forecast at 4:30 PM yesterday: There are cyclones and rainstorms around Shandong, due to the hurricane moving north-northwest or northwest-west. The weather here and south of Ma'an Island is clear and hot, with strong southwest to southeast winds. The center of the hurricane was within 160 miles of 34 degrees north latitude and longitude at noon. Wind direction north-northwest or north-west, wind force strong. Also, within the 24 hours before 3:00 PM yesterday, the highest temperature in Shanghai was 9. , and the lowest was 4.7. On the same day last year, the highest was 91.9, and the lowest was 7.8.

Education News

### Ministry of Education's Latest Measures to Maintain Academic and Cultural Institutions, Appropriates US$1 Million for Additional Facilities, Special Allowances for Teachers' Living Expenses

(Chongqing Airlines News) Since the outbreak of the war, public opinion has been very concerned about the maintenance of academic and cultural institutions. Our reporter specially interviewed the person in charge of the Ministry of Education and asked about the latest measures taken by the Ministry to maintain academic and cultural work. According to him, since the war broke out, the losses suffered by various colleges, universities, and research institutions have been enormous. However, the government is determined to maintain them. Various public and private colleges, universities, research institutions, and academic groups have been relocated, reorganized, restored, or newly established. The current number has not decreased compared with the pre-war period. Among them, the number of national colleges and universities and the number of students have even increased. In addition, the construction fees for various colleges and universities under the education, youth, and culture expenses in the national budget were suspended after the outbreak of the war in 1937. Since 1938, the Ministry of Education has applied for and obtained approval to restore them, and they have been listed in recent years, which has helped to supplement books and instruments. Recently, the Ministry has also obtained approval from the Executive Yuan to allocate US$200,000 for various schools to supplement necessary equipment. The Academic Review Committee, in view of the serious shortage of equipment, has also resolved to request an additional allocation of US$800,000 to make a more sufficient supplement. This case is currently being handled by the Ministry. In addition, in order to remedy the lack of equipment, the Ministry of Education has also agreed with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Transportation, and Military Administration on a method of factory-school cooperation. At present, each engineering college in the country has been designated to cooperate with one or several factories. As for the salaries of teachers in various colleges and universities, which were not high in the first place, were originally paid at a 70% discount. In addition, due to the high cost of living, it was difficult to maintain a living. The Ministry has applied for and obtained approval from the Executive Yuan to allocate additional funds to subsidize academic research supplies. For those schools located in areas with particularly high living expenses, special allowance measures have been separately formulated. Recently, due to the rising prices, the regular office expenses of various colleges and universities have been insufficient. The Ministry of Education has submitted a case to the Executive Yuan, requesting that the various office and consumable expenses of the schools be increased. As for the estimated budget for the 30th year, special increases have been made for office and academic research expenses to meet the necessary needs. The subsidy fees for various academic groups, which were suspended due to the war, have been restored since the last time. All these measures are to maintain the level of academic culture and stabilize the lives of academic workers.

### Education Resolutions of the Guangdong Provincial Administrative Council

(Hong Kong Communication) The resolutions of the Guangdong Provincial Administrative Council on education are recorded as follows: (1) Commissioner Li Yikun of the First District proposed that all public and private universities in the province be moved back to the inland areas of the province. "Resolution" was passed in principle and submitted to the provincial government for review. (2) Commissioner Li Leifu of the Third District proposed that children's training groups and nurseries be added in the West River area to take in children from the war zone nearby. "Resolution" was sent to the provincial government for submission to the competent authorities for consideration. (3) Commissioner Li Leifu of the Third District proposed that the Education Department be requested to print a large number of short-term primary school textbooks to reduce the burden on students and popularize compulsory education. "Resolution" The Education Department and the administrative inspectors' offices of each district entrusted by the department shall print a large number of short-term primary school textbooks and distribute them to the counties for application. It is necessary to open a list of the number of textbooks required this year and submit a budget to the provincial government for allocation of special funds for printing and distribution. (4) The commissioner of the Seventh District proposed how to reorganize the education funds of each county to improve the treatment of teachers and maintain education. County Magistrate Wang Renyu of Lian County proposed to improve the treatment of teachers and increase the number of teachers to maintain wartime education and create a vast career. County Magistrate of Dabu County proposed to subsidize the living expenses of primary school teachers in the province to maintain education and consolidate the foundation of the country. County Magistrate Chen Rongkui of Wengyuan County proposed that in counties with backward culture, rural normal schools and agricultural schools should be added. County Magistrate Chen Rongkui of Ruyuan County proposed to increase the number of teachers in township and village schools and requested the provincial government to recruit and train them in advance to supply the needs of the counties. The above five cases were discussed together. "Resolution" A. Regarding improving the treatment of primary school teachers, A. Increase the salary standard. The salaries of teachers in public and private primary schools in each county and city shall be increased by 20% to 30% according to the original payment. The county government shall consider the local situation and determine according to the above standards. B. Raise funds for salary increases. (I) The funds required for increasing the salaries of teachers in public primary schools shall be raised by the original allocation agencies. (II) The funds required for increasing the salaries of teachers in private primary schools shall be raised by the school board. When necessary, the county government shall convene school boards, principals, and teachers to discuss and reorganize the school funding methods. B. Regarding increasing the number of primary school teachers, the methods proposed in each case are feasible in principle. Please ask the provincial government to plan and handle them as a whole. C. County Magistrate Chen Rongkui of Wengyuan County proposed that the agricultural school part of the agricultural school is urgently needed to train production talents, and provincial agricultural schools should be added in districts, and the existing provincial agricultural schools should be enriched and reorganized. Please ask the provincial government to plan and handle them as a whole.

### High School and Above, Outline of Freshman Training, Normal School Graduates Not Allowed to Continue Education

(Chongqing Airlines News) The Ministry of Education believes that freshmen in secondary and higher schools should be given special training. Now, the Ministry has drafted the implementation outline and subject teaching material outline for freshman training in high schools and above and has ordered them to be announced and promulgated. In addition, the Ministry of Education has issued a notice to all public and private colleges and universities above the vocational school level that graduates of various normal schools will not be allowed to participate in further education examinations if they have not served according to regulations. It has also telegraphed the enrollment committees of each district that normal school students with excellent grades and certificates are limited to applying for normal colleges.

### Examination Commissioners Swear Oath for Guilin District Higher Examination

(Guilin Airlines News) The Guangxi Provincial Government held a memorial week for Premier Sun Yat-sen in the auditorium at 6:30 AM on the 22nd of last month. At the same time, the examination commissioners and supervisors of the Guilin Office of the Preliminary Examination Committee for the Finance and Financial Higher Examination of the 29th year held a swearing-in ceremony. Chairman Huang, Supervisor Liu, Supervisor Hou Wu, Examination Commissioner Lei Tingchang Peihong, and all the directors of the various departments and all the government officials attended. Chairman Huang led the ceremony as usual. Then, the swearing-in ceremony was held immediately. Chairman Huang supervised the oath in the name of the director of the provincial party headquarters. The examination commissioners and supervisors read the oath in unison. Then, Supervisor Huang Xuchu gave a speech, saying that the higher examination was to select true talents, and then reported on the current situation. Finally, Supervisor Liu Jiancha Shi Houwu gave a reply, saying that he would do it according to the central laws and regulations. The ceremony ended and everyone dispersed.

### School News

Lixin Accounting Tutoring School The 25th day and night school of Lixin Accounting Tutoring School at No. 406, Jiangxi Road has ended. The 26th day and night school and weekly school of the next term have also been scheduled to start in early September. Registration can be made from today. It is reported that in addition to the original courses, new courses such as auditing problems, income tax accounting, statistics, and crash courses will be set up to meet the needs of all parties. At the same time, in order to facilitate the enrollment of students in the western district, in addition to the original branch at No. 384, Fuxu Road, a branch will be added at No. 48, Lane 41, Card Road. Recently, the school has also published a special autumn enrollment brochure, detailing the content of the courses offered in the next term and the professors in charge of each course, so that those who are interested in enrolling can consult it for reference.

Wuguang Girls' High School Shanghai Wuguang Girls' High School, No. 230, Lane 230, Gordon Road, was founded by the former principal and teachers of the Municipal Wuben Girls' High School. It is run in the spirit of Wuben for more than 30 years and has been approved by the Ministry of Education. The school's teaching policy focuses on practical subjects, with special emphasis on Chinese, English, and mathematics hours, and there are elective courses such as applied writing and abacus. Students' extracurricular homework is strictly regulated, and a weekly diary is written every week, which is corrected by the grade teacher. In terms of moral education, diligence, simplicity, sincerity, and courage are the school motto. The school's enrollment date is August 10, and there will be no more enrollment after that.

Guangshi Middle School Guangshi Middle School, at the intersection of Connaught Road and New Seymour Road, has been established for many years. The school buildings are spacious, and the teaching management is strict. Next semester, Gu Gaicheng, Dong Xiaopei, Gui Mengjian, Tang Zhizhan, and others will be hired to teach Chinese, English, mathematics, science, and other subjects. The other day was the date of the second enrollment examination for new students in the school. The number of candidates was extremely enthusiastic. Statistics show that more than 200 people have registered and taken the exam in the first and second times. The number of students in the next semester will inevitably increase sharply. The classrooms rented to Shanghai Industrial College have been fully recovered for their own use. The list of new students admitted for the second time has been announced, with a total of more than 60 people, including Hu Zurun. The admitted students have been notified separately. The date for the third enrollment is set for August 20.

Zhende Primary and Secondary School Zhende Primary and Secondary School, at the intersection of Avenue Eduard VII and Xiaoshadu Road, has been established for more than 20 years. Special attention is paid to the main subjects such as Chinese, mathematics, and English. The recruitment of students and the examination are strict. The second recruitment examination has been completed, and those who fail will not be admitted. Therefore, there are still vacancies for students at all levels. It is scheduled to continue to recruit new students for the third examination on August 19.

Sports News

### List of Teams Participating in the Second Guangshi Cup Basketball Tournament Announced, 11 in Group A, 16 in Group B, 2 in Women's

The registration for the Second Guangshi Cup Basketball Tournament closed yesterday. There are seven teams in Group A, four teams in Group A2, sixteen teams in Group B, and several teams in the women's division have not yet decided. Only two teams can be disclosed. The formalities for each team must be completed five days in advance. The list is as follows:

### Qi Fan, First Victory

Qi Fan, the incarnation of bombing, has had mediocre results in the Hezhong Cup. Yesterday, he fought Youlian and finally won his first victory, creating a miracle. In the first round, Youlian was seriously threatened by Qi Fan. As a result, Youlian only won by three points. Yesterday, Youlian coach Lu Gusui did not play due to injury, which greatly affected the morale and strength of the entire army, so he was arbitrarily slaughtered by Qi Fan. The battle was also always under the control of Qi Fan. In the first half, Youlian's Zhou Wenyong and Fan Qingxian had nine misses in shooting. Qi Fan's Xi Xilin and Zhang Xianlun were particularly active. In the first half, Youlian 12, Qi Fan 23. After changing sides, the battle gradually became tense. Youlian was greatly defeated by 33 to 47 due to the huge losses in the first half. In the same group A2, Tongren vs. Tianxing, Tianxing took the lead by one point with 24 to 23 in the first half. As a result, 62 to 52, Tongren came later.

### First Amateur Volleyball League, 30 Teams Invited to Participate

The Shanghai First Amateur Volleyball League, sponsored by the Shanghai Amateur Sports Competition Committee, has sent invitations to 30 strong men's and women's volleyball teams in Shanghai, including eight men's teams, eight women's teams, and fourteen men's B teams. Registration will start from today (the 1st) and end on the 8th. Registration address: Mr. Qian Xucang, Guoqiang Middle School, at the intersection of Avenue Eduard VII and Card Road. Each team will pay a registration fee and a deposit of 10 yuan each. The interior of the venue for the competition is currently being repaired by the construction workers hired by Liu Youji Construction Factory. The layout of the stadium in the future will be meticulous, so as to meet the purpose of the association to purely promote sports. In addition, the association is scheduled to host the sports press at the New Capital Hotel at 7:00 PM tonight for a get-together.

### Charitable Small Ball Game: Match Order Drawn, Eight Heroes Compete in Elimination System, Song League Participates in Closing Performance

The Children's Education Institute is hosting the Bin Cup Charitable Small Ball game, scheduled to be held tomorrow at the Guangxia Middle School Stadium. Participants include eight teams: Samsung, Jianbei, Lianyi, Zhongyou, Tie Team, Fahua, Zhenhua, and Sanyi. Yesterday afternoon, a meeting of team captains was held at the Daxin Tea House to conduct the drawing of lots for a single-elimination tournament. It was decided that the first half of the four teams will hold preliminary rounds tomorrow, with the winners advancing to the semi-finals next Saturday (the 10th). The second half of the four teams will hold preliminary rounds on the 8th (Sunday), with the winners also advancing to the semi-finals on the 10th. The final championship match will be held next Sunday (the 11th). At that time, a performance match between the Song League and Wen Jun will be added. Tickets are priced at one yuan and five jiao. After Mr. Xiao Wenbin's continuous broadcasts and active promotion on the radio and in the community, the results have been exceptionally successful. More than 400 one-yuan tickets have already been sold. The opening ceremony will be grand, with Mr. Yuan Ludeng invited to kick off the game, and the Children's Orchestra will perform on site. The order of the draw is as follows:

Tomorrow (Saturday): Samsung vs. Jianbei (Preliminary) 5:30 PM, Referee: Shen Zhihong; Lianyi vs. Zhongyou (Preliminary) 6:30 PM, Referee: Wei Shigen

The Day After Tomorrow (Sunday): Tie Team vs. Fahua (Preliminary) 5:30 PM, Referee: Shen Zhihong; Zhenhua vs. Sanyi (Preliminary) 6:30 PM, Referee: Wei Shigen

### Today's Binhai Volleyball

The Binhai Cup volleyball tournament originally had five games scheduled yesterday, but due to wet courts after the rain, all were postponed. This afternoon, there will be four Division B games and one women's game, starting at 3:15 PM. The schedule is as follows:

Binhai vs. Puyo (Division B) 3:15 PM

Nanjing Youth vs. Tongyi (Division B) 4:30 PM

Team G vs. Xiaguang (Division B) 5:15 PM

Huayan vs. Aiguo (Women's) 5:15 PM

Shanghai Star Blue vs. Jishan (Division B) 6:45 PM

### Confucius Cup Table Tennis Tournament

Previous Results

Huayi A defeated Feima 6-1, Huayi A defeated Mingxing (forfeit), Siming defeated Wanxia Xin 4-3, Jiuyuan defeated Youbang You 7-0, Zhongguo defeated Heye 4-3, Lianqing defeated Tengchuan Lian 4-3, Qingyun defeated Choubu 6-1, Qingyun defeated Shangde 6-1, Yingguang defeated Nanying 6-1, Shenxin defeated Xiude 4-3.

Today's Schedule

Hualian Green vs. Longmao (Confucius) 6:30 PM, Huahua
Hualian Green vs. Youqing (Confucius) 8:30 PM, Hualian
Qingde vs. Tiema (Confucius) 6:30 PM, Youbang
Jiating vs. Sanle (Confucius) 8:30 PM, Youbang
Gongshang vs. Zhongju (Sage) 7:30 PM, Jingwu
Huayi B vs. Lianqing (Sage) 6:30 PM, Zhongguo
Zhongguo vs. Hualianqing (Sage) 8:30 PM, Zhongguo
Heye vs. Nanying (Sage) 8:30 PM, Gonghua
Heye vs. Huasheng (Sage) 8:30 PM, Gonghua
Huashun vs. Shenyu (Cup) 6:30 PM, Siming
Huayu vs. Xiude (Cup) 8:30 PM, Siming

### Jincheng Table Tennis Team to Test Players Today

Nie Qingshou, the general manager of the Jincheng Bank Table Tennis Team, in order to improve the team's skills, initiated a test of the players' performance. The first test is scheduled for 8:00 PM tonight at the bank's club on Yuyuan Road, with coach Chen Linsheng evaluating the players. Participants include Luo Junhua, Shi Rongkang, Wang Zhongfu, and others. After the test, the best players will be selected to represent the team in the next Bank Cup League to showcase their skills.

### Continental Bank Forms Table Tennis Team

The colleagues of the Continental Bank's Anyi Road branch have been established for several years. They have always attached great importance to the physical and mental well-being of their colleagues. It is heard that recently, the bank authorities, in order to strive for perfection, have reorganized the entire organization, dividing it into groups for Ping Opera, Dialect, Sports, Library, Traditional Music, and Chess. As a result, the colleagues' interest has become even stronger. Among them, the sports group is particularly active. In addition to adding various fitness equipment and hiring teachers to teach boxing, the group leader, Mr. Ye Jusun, is actively organizing a table tennis team. In the near future, a brand-new lineup will be seen meeting with various teams.

## Page 9

Business News

### Finance: Hong Kong Sells Foreign Exchange

In yesterday's foreign exchange market, HSBC's listed prices remained unchanged. In the black market for British and American currencies, prices continued to ease slightly due to the forceful selling by Hong Kong telegraph companies and speculators. However, foreign banks had a good appetite for purchases, and there were still rumors of bullish factors in the market. Therefore, the downward trend was very slow. In the afternoon, Chinese banks also bought, and American banks showed strong interest, with prices remaining stable. At the close, British gold was quoted at 3 pence 875, and the US dollar was at 5.96875 yuan, an increase of 0.03125 yuan compared to yesterday's close. The futures situation was similar to the spot market, with active trading in September contracts.

US Dollar Once Reaches Six Yuan

In the early morning, London's large transactions were flat, and New York's silver price was also flat. London's raw gold remained unchanged. In exchange rates, the British pound was unchanged against the US dollar and the Shanghai currency. There was no market for the French franc. The US dollar was up one point against the British pound, down seven points against the Shanghai currency, and there was no market for the French franc. The central bank's listed exchange rates remained the same. At the opening of the bank's spot prices, British gold was 3 pence 859375, and the US dollar was 5.9375 yuan. Compared to the previous close, the British pound was up 0.015625 yuan, while the US dollar was unchanged. After the opening, Hong Kong telegraph companies were the first to sell, and Chinese banks in Shanghai also sold, so the market hardened. It is estimated that foreign banks bought US dollars for 5.96875 yuan. Later, American Express sold US dollars to Chinese merchants for 5.96875 yuan for August, which was close to the spot price. HSBC's listed prices were unchanged, and the announcement of the silver equalization tax also showed no increase or decrease. Afterwards, Chinese merchants, speculators, and Sassoon continued to sell, and the trend became increasingly loose. It is estimated that foreign banks bought US dollars for August from speculators and Sassoon for 6 yuan, and the spot price was 6.03125 yuan. Soon after, Hong Kong telegraph companies sold US dollars to foreign banks for the same month at 6.03125 yuan. The British pound was the strongest at 3 pence 875. At that time, there were rumors in the market that the "New Central Bank" would issue banknotes on September 15th, and people were suspicious. The market softened again. It is estimated that speculators bought US dollars for September at 5.90625 yuan. The midday close showed British gold at 3 pence 85937, and the US dollar at 5.96875 yuan, an increase of 0.03125 yuan for both the British pound and the US dollar compared to the morning opening.

The Afternoon Sees a Slight Tightening

The market was relatively flat in the afternoon. Initially, American banks bought spot pounds, which were slightly harder at 3 pence 875. Later, Chinese banks and the Continental Bank bought US dollars for August at 5.96875 yuan and 5.9375 yuan. After that, there were no changes until the close. As a result, British gold was 3 pence 875, the US dollar was 5.96875 yuan, British gold for August was 3 pence 859375, the US dollar for August was 5.9375 yuan, British gold for September was 3 pence 84375, and the US dollar for September was 5.84375 yuan, an increase of 0.03125 yuan for both the British pound and the US dollar in both the spot and futures markets compared to the previous day.

Little Change in Hong Kong's Exchange Market

Hong Kong, 1st (Thursday) Telegram: The exchange market opened flat this morning. The British and Japanese currencies remained unchanged. The US dollar spot price was tight at 0.0625, at 23.125 yuan. The Shanghai currency spot price fell by 2 yuan, to 384 yuan. At 9:55 AM, it was calm. The US dollar spot price eased back to 0.0625, to 23.1875 yuan. At 11:30 AM, it was flat, and no currencies rose or fell. The market opened calmly at 2:30 PM, and there were no changes in any currencies.

Tianjin: British Pound Loosens, US Dollar Remains Stable

Tianjin, 1st (Thursday) Telegram: The exchange market opened flat this morning. The British pound spot price eased by 0.0625, to 3 pence 625. The US dollar spot price and the Shanghai currency were unchanged, still opening at 5 and a half yuan and 107 yuan, respectively. The "United Currency" black market was slightly cheaper at 2 jiao and a half, to 94 yuan and 7 jiao and a half.

### Gold Market Hovers, Fluctuating Around 5,400 Yuan

Yesterday's black market for spot gold continued its flat and weak trend. There were many sellers in the market, and buyers were relatively weak. Although there was a buying surge before the market closed, the closing price was still low due to retail investors selling back. The morning opening was 5,430 yuan, and immediately there were reports of a hardening foreign exchange market, and gold and currency exchange firms sold aggressively, causing a sharp drop to 5,330 yuan. Later, thanks to the support of currency exchange firms and securities firms, the midday close was 5,390 yuan. The afternoon opening was better, at 5,420 yuan, but currency exchange firms and gold firms came to sell again, causing a further drop to 5,390 yuan. Suddenly, gold firms, silver firms, and retail investors started buying, temporarily pushing the price up to 5,445 yuan. However, the high price easily triggered retail investors to sell back, and the closing price was only 5,405 yuan, a decrease of 10 yuan compared to the previous day's close. The total trading volume was approximately 2,800 taels. The price of gold ornaments in silver shops was once lowered, but then returned to the original level. The price of customs gold remained unchanged.

Spot Gold Drops Ten Yuan

From the morning, each bar (ten taels) was initially priced at 5,430 yuan due to a flat but weak exchange market and many sellers, slightly higher than the previous close by 15 yuan. Subsequently, gold firms, currency exchange firms, and silver firms competed to sell, and at that time, the exchange market was reported to be hardening, and there were surprisingly few buyers. Before long, it sharply fell by 100 yuan. Gold firms sold to securities firms for ten taels, retreating to 5,330 yuan. Then, a currency exchange firm agreed to cover its short position, and securities firms and retail investors followed suit, so it quickly rose back by 20 yuan. Gold firms bought from currency exchange firms for ten taels, rising to 5,350 yuan. After that, due to silver firms selling, it once again retreated to 5,340 yuan. Around 11:00 AM, currency exchange firms were actively buying, constantly searching for purchases, and the exchange market softened slightly, so the buying momentum gradually increased. By the time of the close, it had risen back by 50 yuan. Securities firms bought from gold firms for twenty taels, at 5,390 yuan. After the close, due to a rumor that a certain bank would issue banknotes, silver firms absorbed even more aggressively, raising the price to 5,410 yuan. The afternoon opening rose slightly. Initially, currency exchange firms bought from silver firms for fifty taels, at 5,420 yuan. Subsequently, gold firms and silver firms sold, stepping down slightly by 30 yuan. Silver firms traded with each other for twenty taels, at 5,390 yuan. Later, a certain silver firm suddenly developed a buying interest, and soon gold firms also followed suit, leaping up another 55 yuan. Silver firms bought from currency exchange firms for twenty taels, at 5,445 yuan. After entering, the buying momentum gradually dissipated, and currency exchange firms and short sellers sold in succession. By the time of the close, it had fallen back slightly by 40 yuan. Silver firms bought from other firms for ten taels, at 5,405 yuan, which was the evening closing price. As a result, it fell by 10 yuan compared to the previous day's close. The total fluctuation for the day was 115 yuan. The selling price of cash gold from gold firms was several dozen yuan higher than that of spot gold, and the buying price was reduced by 30 yuan. The current standard gold price was more than 50 yuan lower than the listed gold price.

The Price of Gold Ornaments Tries to Fall But Stops

The initial selling price of gold ornaments per tael in silver shops was still 560 yuan in major shops. At 10:01 AM, it was lowered by 10 yuan. At 2:05 PM in the afternoon, it rose back by 10 yuan. As a result, major shops still charged 560 yuan. The prices of new shops were similar to the previous price, and the buying price was reduced by about 30 yuan.

### US Dollar Notes Fluctuate Irregularly

Yesterday's foreign currency market saw spot gold gradually stabilize, and the British pound and US gold pound also fluctuated slightly, ultimately falling slightly by five jiao. The supply and demand for British gold notes was still balanced, and the market price remained stable. The US gold note once retreated to 16 yuan 5 jiao and 1 fen. In the afternoon, it rose to 16 yuan 7 jiao and 5 fen, but then retreated again to 16 yuan 6 jiao and 7 fen, a decrease of 3 fen compared to the previous day. The demand for Hong Kong notes was weak, and the market price remained stable. Both Japanese gold notes and Korean notes turned to a downward trend, with the former retreating to 1 yuan 2 jiao and 6 fen and a half, and the latter falling to 1 yuan 0 jiao and 8 fen and a half.

### Securities: Category D Rises One Yuan

Yesterday, the securities black market showed a turn for the better, but because the rise was relatively sharp, it caused many to close out positions and short sell, and the market fell back slightly in the afternoon. However, it was still firmer than the previous day. Based on the popularity and confidence of the various groups, the future is still more likely to rise than fall. However, there are many changes in the environment, and rumors rise and fall suddenly, so speculators are also exhausted. Only with drastic changes will there be huge rises and falls. Yesterday's trading saw the most activity in Categories A, C, and E, with Categories B and D being extremely rare. Buyers such as Tongji, Tongshun, Dingkang, Changkang, and Hu Heji all bought in, while Lianhe consistently sold off. Jiufeng, Zhongyi, Yongxiang, and Xieda also sold actively, and trading was quite active. Among them, there was a lot of trading that involved abandoning this for that, and switching positions. As a result of the competition, except for Category D, which rose the most by 1 yuan and 1 jiao because there was no trading open the afternoon before, the rest continued to rise by 5 fen to 3 jiao. The total transaction amount was estimated to be more than one million yuan. A brief table is listed below:

Stock trading: 50 shares of Guohua Bank were traded at a price of 55 yuan.

Yesterday's stock market continued to be lackluster, with few transactions and no price changes. Unless there is a definite change in the situation, either positive or negative, the market seems likely to remain stagnant within a narrow range and lack vitality. In the current situation, if prices fall, buyers will come to buy, and conversely, if there is a slight rising trend, sellers will come to sell in succession.

London, 31st (Wednesday) Telegram: Today's listed prices of Chinese foreign debt and Far East British companies' stocks only saw slight changes in bank stocks. Jardine Matheson Bank continued to rise by 3 shillings and 9 pence, priced at 7 pounds. HSBC Bank's London-registered shares fell by 3 pounds, priced at 65 pounds, and Hong Kong-registered shares fell by 2 pounds, priced at 68 pounds. The rest remained unchanged.

### Yarn and Cotton: Bullish Cotton Yarn Still Has Not Given Up

The yarn market has entered a flat and weak period again. This is because foreign exchange has risen back up, gold has trended downward, and actual sales are not strong, so confidence has weakened. The bulls, seeing the unfavorable environment, lack the energy to act, but most of them still have not given up. Therefore, the market is still soft with some firmness. Future changes will depend on the actual situation.

The spot yarn market opened this morning with a subdued atmosphere due to unchanged foreign exchange rates and a lack of new buyers in the market. The small opening price for 20-count Double Horse yarn was 980 yuan, a decrease of 6 yuan compared to the previous day. Then, it was heard that exchange rates had risen, actual sales were average, and short sellers closed out positions, falling straight to 970 yuan. However, a certain bull came to replenish the amount that had been sold off the day before, and the market showed improvement again, reaching 978 yuan. After the close, it was again weak. It is found that the transaction statistics for half a day were 1,380 bales, and the price of 20-count Double Horse yarn fell by 10 yuan. Yesterday, 90 pieces of yarn were shipped to Tianjin. The amount purchased by each group is listed separately on the left.

### Orders Not Yet Sold Out, Cotton Merchants Lack Purchasing Power

There is still little new development in spot cotton trading. This is because the overseas American and Indian cotton markets are still stagnant and lack characteristics. In addition, domestic yarn sales are sluggish, and factories' interest has decreased. As for the industry, "they see that the actual situation is not working, and secondly, the goods ordered by various parties have not been sold out, so there is no new purchasing power." The price of fire machine grass bales is 149 yuan to 150 yuan, which is the price of delivery at the warehouse.

Another piece of news is the price of foreign cotton. The New York cotton market is very quiet. Initially, there was selling by the public, and then there was closing out of positions by some bulls. As a result, the closing price fell by 2-3 pounds compared to the previous day. The Indian cotton market also fell by one rupee yesterday along with forecasts.

The trading of foreign cotton in Shanghai is extremely quiet by all parties. There was no single transaction all day long. The industry believes that the market's inventory is not abundant.

### Cotton Yarn Speculation Seeking Profit Suffers Losses: The Momentum is Exhausted and Difficult to Reverse, Tripping Over Oneself and Being in a Great Predicament

It is worth reviewing the changing situation in the cotton yarn market over the past month.

(1) Since the collapse of the bulls last month, it has plummeted by several hundred yuan, with 20-count Double Horse yarn falling to 800 yuan.

(2) At the beginning of this month, the yarn industry, seeing that the decline was huge, thought it might be worth dragging in and going long again. Therefore, the market, which was on the verge of death, slowly recovered, and it was reported that shipments could be made to the Hua Nan area. However, the procedures for transferring and transporting goods from the Shayuchong port in the Dapeng Bay to the inland areas are extremely difficult. However, although Hong Kong groups made wholesale purchases, retail transactions were more active. Thus, those who seized the opportunity to move after a long period of inactivity started buying in large numbers. With this support, the yarn market regained the 1,000 yuan mark, reaching 1,062 yuan. Unexpectedly, the market price was high and the foundation was unstable. Those who were satisfied saw the trend and set sail, closing out their positions. On the 16th of this month, it was reported that the Japanese army had blockaded the sea entrances of Zhejiang and Fujian, and it plummeted by a huge 130-140 yuan in one day, breaking through the 900 yuan mark and reaching 885 yuan.

(4) The military situation in eastern Zhejiang improved, Zhenhai was recovered, and confidence was revived. The idea of raising prices was rekindled. It was found that the scope of operations was slightly wider. Factories opened several thousand bales of futures. On the one hand, they took in several hundred or thousands of lots of the 20-count Double Horse factory orders from retail investors in the market. For a time, the situation in the market suddenly became lively, and rumors arose, saying that the market was going to rise and that there was a big turnaround coming. The seedlings came, and because credit was loose, it was easier to obtain mortgages. It was as if a hurricane had risen again, and from 917 yuan, it rose straight to 990 yuan in two days. In general, it was thought that the 1,000 yuan mark could be crossed in the near future. Unexpectedly, although the market price was advancing step by step, there was still a lack of new buyers. Those who profited sold out, causing the market to rise and then fall by 20 yuan. In addition, there are still the following situations that hinder the future of the yarn market: (1) Speculators settling accounts in the first half of the year suffered large losses in seeking profit and were severely hit, weakening their strength. (2) Cotton yarn inventories are increasing daily, and production and consumption cannot be balanced. (3) After the Hua Nan international transportation line was blocked, it has now been changed to be transported to the inland areas through other ports. (4) The price difference from a certain yarn is too far, with the same yarn differing by 190 yuan. (5) The price of rice and firewood is expensive, let alone clothing, so cloth sales are even more sluggish, and small cloth factories are closing one after another. (6) As for the guest groups, due to transportation difficulties and high prices, they have simply given up and do not handle many orders. If they encounter a reasonable price, they are more willing to absorb, so there is no active and prosperous operation. (7) And the price of raw materials is flat. This year, the acreage of American cotton has increased, and there is hope for an increase in the production of new cotton.

Judging from the above actual situation, the current trend of yarn and cloth is that speculation, although deliberately trying to make it rise, is difficult.

Factories are unwilling to sell at low prices, and they are also unwilling to buy unless the price is at the lowest possible level, so they are all in a stalemate.

### Sugar Market: Guangdong Groups Buy a Thousand Bales of Coarse White

Yesterday, the sugar market saw a softening of confidence and a return to looseness because the rumors about the East Indian incident, which had been spread the day before, were groundless. The association cut its price of spot 24 coarse white sugar by 67 yuan 8 jiao to 68 yuan, down 0.5 yuan at the local warehouse, and 67 yuan 6 jiao to 3 jiao in the morning and 67 yuan 6 jiao to 8 jiao in the afternoon, down 0.7 jiao at the outer warehouse. Transit goods, i.e. those with warehouse receipts, were 52 yuan to 52 yuan and 1 jiao, down 0.9 jiao, and 53 yuan for delivery on August 15th, down 1 yuan. Guangdong groups were the biggest buyers, buying a thousand bales. Dutch red for delivery of ships arriving on August 5th was 56 and a half yuan. Taikoo refined B-grade was 72 and a half yuan, down 1.5 yuan. The factory's snow white was 68 and a half yuan, down 0.5 jiao, No. 1 ice was 89 yuan, and Jingming ice was 90 yuan and a half, down 1 yuan each.

### Coal: White Coal Fines Revert to Original Price

Since the new cargo of Hongji No. 2 white coal fines arrived, the trade has been tearing apart. Initially, the transshipment price was 110 yuan per ton. Subsequently, as the price of coal briquettes fell, it also followed the trend, falling by 14 yuan. Now it has returned to its original price, still opening at the old price of 110 yuan, limited to coal briquette factories. The market price is 111 yuan. Local door shops are 6 yuan and 2 jiao per load, it is said.

### Grain: Rice Prices Fall Back

The spot foreign rice market, which had surged briefly the day before, fell back yesterday. The current accumulated stock is abundant, and the source is continuous. However, a large-scale manipulation would make the price high and difficult to handle. However, rice bombardment is still prevalent, and if there is a slight change in the future, speculation can be set up. It is good that the management of the rice market is empty talk, and it is rarely effective in the end. Therefore, if you want to stabilize rice prices, there is only one method of strict control. If it is entrusted to the hands of rice merchants, how can one not secretly protect each other? A ship with another 4,800 tons of Siamese rice will arrive in Shanghai by land and sea, and the spot foreign rice will immediately be reduced by 6-7 jiao to nearly 1 yuan. The original two-grade Saigon opened at 59 yuan and a half, down to 57 yuan and 7 jiao, and the two-grade Siamese rice opened from 55 yuan and a half, down to 58 yuan and 8 jiao, but the buyers are still watching. If there are no big buyers in the later market, the market will ultimately be in a downward trend. The total amount of original rice opened was only 175 tons, and the spot rice was no more than 4,000 bags. Yesterday, 328 bags of foreign rice were loaded onto the Yongsheng ship and transported to Yantai.

There were no new arrivals of japonica rice or glutinous rice from domestic rice, and trading was normal, and the selling price did not increase or decrease. The usual price of fresh clear japonica rice from Changzhou was 65-66 yuan, clear japonica rice from Wuxi was 65 yuan, high-quality japonica rice from Changzhou, Sixian, Suzhou, and Kunshan was 63-64 yuan, and secondary rice was 61 yuan. There was still no opening for thin rice. Southern port early rice was 59 yuan, and secondary rice was reduced to 57 yuan. The price of Jinli Baiyuan rice was 56-57 yuan, and special rice was 58 yuan. The price of Changzhou Danyang Baiyuan rice was 54-55 yuan, and special rice was 56-57 yuan. The price of Hong Kong Baiyuan rice was 55 yuan, and special rice was 56-57 yuan.

### Flour Price Stable

The price of flour is stable and strong, because since the factory price was changed to 15 yuan, retail sales have increased even though there has been no large-scale destocking. The market is gradually stabilizing. Japanese-made flour has been devalued and fallen again and again, but because the cost is concerned, they insist on not selling, so the market has called the returned goods up to 14 yuan, and there has not been a large number of sales. There are few internal miscellaneous brands of flour, and in addition to the 6,000 bags of Huachang flour that were sold in batches, the trading volume of other miscellaneous flour was less than 3,000 bags.

The falling trend of wheat also subsided yesterday, because although there are arrivals in Zhabei and Hongkou, most of them are waiting for prices to sell. Japanese factories have repeatedly suppressed the lowest price to only around 18 yuan. Huachang's price is very small because the quantity transported into the concession is extremely small, and they are unwilling to overpay for purchases, so the market has been connected for several days. Yesterday, it was heard that the Japanese factory had a slightly greedy stomach, eating a disk of 18 yuan and 5 jiao, and Huachang received 2,000-3,000 bags, with a price of 20 yuan and 5 jiao, and the market gradually stabilized.

Today, a large amount of flour, a total of 30,000 bags, will be shipped to Fujian. The other day (31st), 2,000 bags were shipped from Hong Kong to Nanning by wheel. The flour was produced by the Australian Fu Yang company (Ancestry).

### Miscellaneous Grains Market Narrow

The trading of miscellaneous grains is quiet and lonely, but the sales market is narrow, and the development is weak, and there is no way for speculative means to start. It is because the market is flat and lacks characteristics, and as for the source, it has arrived one after another, so most of them temporarily reside in a state of more supply and less demand. However, the high-quality yellow summer is instead due to the firm market, while the medium and secondary goods are turning to a soft trend. Yesterday, a total of only 500 or more bags of Anqing beans were opened, with prices ranging from 28 yuan to 27 yuan and 2 jiao, 300 bags of green broad beans from Beigang Maojia City were opened, with prices ranging from 19 yuan to 18 yuan and 8 jiao, and 100 or more bags of Mingguang Mao mung beans were opened, with prices ranging from 19 yuan and 5 jiao. There were 2,500 pieces of bean cake shipped to Fujian.

### Seafood: A Batch of Yantai Tails Opened

A recent batch of Yantai dried shrimp tails arrived and was opened yesterday. The top grade was priced at 272 yuan and the middle grade at 257 yuan. The market is still brisk.

### Textiles: Difficulties Piling Up - Small Weaving Mills Approaching Their End

Since the sharp drop in yarn prices last month, many small weaving mills had already stocked up on 20-count yarn at prices of 1,500 to 1,600 yuan (some even at 1,700 yuan or more), higher-count yarn at over 700 yuan, and 12-count yarn at around 800 to 900 yuan. As for the high-priced finished products (cotton cloth orders) previously sold, customers, due to the plummeting cloth prices (with each bolt of coarse cloth or coarse twill falling by as much as ten yuan compared to the peak market price), the disruption of transportation in Vietnam, and the enforced blockade of the coasts of Fujian and Zhejiang, which halted the distribution of cotton cloth, were unwilling to prepare funds and take delivery of the goods (cotton cloth) at their own expense! Consequently, customers were resorting to simply abandoning their deposits (sacrificing the deposit, not taking delivery; because taking delivery would mean a greater loss than sacrificing one yuan or fifty cents per bolt as a deposit). On the other hand, yarn factories were urging the weaving mills to deliver the goods by a deadline, with extreme urgency! If delivery was delayed by more than a month, starting from August 10th, storage fees, insurance fees, and labor costs would be charged at 3 to 5 yuan per item. Weaving mills were caught in a painful squeeze from both sides. Recalculating their standard cost of 22 to 23 yuan per bolt (weighing ten pounds) (yarn cost around 16 yuan, plus 6 to 7 yuan for weaving costs), the market price? Was only around 20 yuan! (At the peak, it had reached over 30 yuan, with a net profit of at least 6 to 7 yuan per bolt). As a result, those operating at a loss and lacking sufficient capital were unable to sustain and immediately declared bankruptcy, leaving them with no choice but to close down. According to a survey of various weaving mills, large and small, in the city, there are approximately 300 in total, about half using electric power and half using wooden looms. The sales of their products were extremely brisk this spring, but after this major upheaval, more than ten have already been sold or transferred. And there are still 30 that are preparing to close down. Even yarn factories that own weaving mills or larger, well-funded weaving mills are reducing shifts and cutting back on labor. Those normally operating 1,000 looms are now reducing operations by one-third (i.e., reducing by more than 330 looms) or even two-thirds, or only running day shifts and stopping night shifts. If this unfavorable situation continues, there will inevitably come a day when all machines are completely shut down! (Island Guest)

### Sleeve Lining Fabric: Significant Transactions

Horse mane sleeve lining (i.e., horse mane satin) has seen considerable transaction volume recently. Shops specializing in linings and large wholesale dealers of wool and woolen goods are all placing orders. Brokers running errands for Western-style clothing stores are also placing orders. The majority of colors are black. Hongsheng, Yinfeng, Daohua, Rentai, Datong, Baoxin, Baochang, Meixin, Zhenxin, and other factories are all producing it. It is said that Yinfeng Xinji is even busier because it can obtain transportation and sales licenses, allowing it to sell to other regions and export. Printed foreign cloth also has seen significant transactions. The quoted prices are mostly 30 to 40 cents cheaper than the current spot prices (and various factories are mostly keeping it secret, doing under-the-table deals).

### North-South Goods: Cold-Storage Hunan Lotus Seeds Rise in Price

Hunan lotus seeds previously reached 175 yuan on the market, but most of the local lotus seeds have entered cold storage warehouses, increasing costs. Therefore, recent market prices have tightened. Yesterday, the asking price from cold storage dealers was 200 yuan, a rise of more than 20 yuan.

## Page 10

### Old News Re-Copied: Sixty-Seven Years Ago (April 3) (See This Newspaper from the Twelfth Year of the Tongzhi Reign of the Qing Dynasty)

Drawing Water into the Pond

In the garden of the Great Church in the British Concession, there is a pond, relied upon for emergencies. However, recently, due to prolonged drought, the pond water has gradually dried up. Therefore, four water-drawing machines were gathered, and last Friday evening, long leather belts were connected to draw water from the outer reaches of the Customs wharf to fill the pond. From 10:00 PM to 11:00 PM, everyone worked hard, but the pond water only increased by a little over three feet. This is because the leather belts were 135 zhang long, and the pressure had to be increased, causing the belts to rupture in places. Therefore, the operation will have to be suspended for a few days for repairs.

Picking Lotus Rhymes from Jian Lake

Red and green stand opposite each other, graceful; a single oar gently steers the light boat; passing through flowers until deep in the blossoms, playfully counting how many pairs of mandarin ducks roost. The Yue maiden is as beautiful as a flower, causing the flower to feel ashamed; a single leaf of the sand pear tree floats like a reflection in a mirror. How many times do I ask my companions if they have picked lotus flowers together? Gauze shirts and silk robes, but the morning dew has not yet dried in the new dawn; hidden among the flowers, still faintly visible, the green waves make one suspect a fairy has emerged. The varying reds and greens are hard to distinguish; dew gathers on the lotus leaves, resembling pearls; only because the silk robes worn are thin, the fragrance of the flowers easily permeates the skin. My home is by the Ruoye Creek, my youthful charm not yet developed; no wonder my slender wrists are mistaken for jade, and my soft hands are often compared to snow-white lotus roots. Smaller than a lotus flower are the delicate double petals of the water lily; try stepping on the lotus flowers, each step graceful; ever since Xi Shi picked lotus flowers, lotus boats have graced Jian Lake in May.

Published Tomorrow: Studying Western Languages

## Page 11

Spring and Autumn

### Mistakenly Delivered Medicine

— Qin Chang

When a person is unfortunate enough to fall ill and seeks medical treatment, their life can be said to be completely entrusted to the doctor. The article in this publication concerning "medicine dregs" mentioned that medicine dregs discarded at street corners allowed doctors to determine if previous prescriptions were in error. Nowadays, naturally, we no longer talk about such things, so the practice has become merely a routine formality.

Several years ago, pharmacies in various countries, competing for business, established medicine decoction services, which was truly a good way to benefit patients. For some serious illnesses, acquiring and decocting medicine oneself would take considerable time, which could delay the patient's treatment; and for employees of organizations, factories, etc., decocting medicine oneself is simply impossible. Therefore, medicine decoction services not only seek to develop their own business but also greatly benefit patients. However, yesterday's newspaper contained a news item about a mistakenly delivered medicine decoction that almost cost a patient their life.

The occurrence of such an error may be due to the carelessness of an employee, but the resulting consequences cannot be excused by mere carelessness. Originally, when one went to a pharmacy to acquire medicine, an employee would dispense the medicine according to the prescription, and another person would be responsible for checking it. If there were no errors, the prescription would be tied to the medicine package. Patients picking up medicine would also have a dispensing number as proof. Such scientific division of labor should ordinarily prevent errors. Medicine decoction services, of course, also have people specifically assigned to the task and distinguishing labels, because it is even more difficult to detect errors in the dispensed medicine once it has been decocted, let alone when it is mistakenly delivered.

After a patient entrusts their life to the doctor, they also entrust their life to the pharmacy. Therefore, to avoid such errors, every employee should, at all times and in all places, devote their full attention to their job, allowing no room for any negligent mistakes.

### The Borrowed Report Card

— Yi

The hot summer vacation is the busy time for schools to recruit new students; it is also the tensest season for a small number of students who try every means, even resorting to crime, in an attempt to achieve promotion or skipping grades.

This is a painful matter: yesterday afternoon, two of my third younger brother's classmates came to our house. They wanted to ask my third brother to borrow a report card from the previous semester (the second semester of the 28th academic year) because three of their friends, two having difficulty with promotion, wanted to change schools; one was preparing to skip to the first year of senior high school in the next semester but lacked the necessary supporting documents, so they wanted to borrow three report cards. They knew that my third brother's report cards were of no use to him and wanted to borrow them temporarily. I had always heard that a few schools in Shanghai were selling diplomas, but I did not expect that there was also such a thing as borrowing report cards! Driven by curiosity, I asked, "Wouldn't the name, year, month, and grade on the report card not match?" Then they told me: First, they borrow a report card from a classmate or friend at school with better grades, and then use precise methods to erase the name, year, month, and grade on the report card, and then use ink and handwriting that matches the report card to write the name of the applicant and the appropriate year, month, and grade. This way, they can apply to any grade they want to apply to. They added that the friend who was skipping grades could have used their own, but because their grades were poor and not good-looking, they also decided to borrow one. After they finished their explanation, I was thoroughly impressed by their "frank" attitude and "clever" methods. However, I was unwilling for my third brother to be drawn into the abyss of crime, so I immediately took it upon myself to refuse them apologetically. I predicted that they must have been very unhappy.

I watched the backs of the two educated individuals disappear, a blurred "?" flashing before my eyes.

Correction: In the dialogue below the illustration on the 28th, "Fly A: Hey! What are you always doing resting here? Fly B: Don't you know the cream here is really tasty!" The upper sentence is missing the word "this," and the lower sentence is missing the word "here." We hereby make this correction.

### Weeping, Returning to My Hometown

This concerns students from the north. I hope the teachers in the education sector will pay attention.

Students in the north, especially in the cultural city of Beiping, are constantly hoping for an opportunity to come to the south to study, but economics and parental consent are always problems. As a result, those who come south usually come in small groups of a dozen or so people, and they are mostly graduates of universities and middle schools.

We and others came from the north this time with great hope. Although traveling south from Beiping is very dangerous, we still disguised ourselves as merchants or junior staff in various industries and secretly came. As a result, we finally arrived in Shanghai. Our goal, of course, was to take the university entrance exams. We first took the exam at Jiaotong University. The staff at Jiaotong University only said that there were problems with our certificates but allowed us to take the exam; however, other private universities refused to accept us, which not only extinguished our hopes but also made us feel resentful.

Now we ask the education sector, is admission based on qualifications (diplomas or certificates) and not on academic performance? Can't Chinese citizens who graduate from middle school enter Chinese universities? Do the teachers in the education sector in Shanghai not recognize students from the north as members of the Republic of China?

Now, we several classmates are returning to the north after our disappointment. From now on, there will definitely be few students coming south. China now needs young people. I believe this is a loss! (A Group of Students Who Came South from the Old Capital)

Hawthorn's Case

### The Ballerina's Fate

— Written by Cheng Xiaoqing

Hawthorn put the key into his pocket and took out the small two-inch photo from his breast pocket to show me. It was Zhao Boxiong with a square jaw and angular features. I was stunned.

He said, "Turn it over and take a look." There seemed to be some impatience in his voice.

I quickly turned the photo over and, sure enough, there were five pencil-written characters: "Asia East 774." The writing was small and faint, and not very skillful.

Hawthorn said, "I guess these five characters were written by Wang Lilan."

"Then it's the Asia East Hotel?" I said, handing the photo back to Hawthorn.

Hawthorn nodded slightly and climbed back into the driver's seat, turning the car around and heading north. He suddenly asked me, "Are you carrying a gun?"

I was secretly startled, not expecting it to be so serious. I replied, "No. Are you?"

Hawthorn nodded, "I always carry one."

I also said, "Aren't we going to find Zhao Boxiong? Why would we need a gun? I find it a bit strange."

"It would be strange if we didn't need a gun to see Zhao Boxiong." He paused, letting the car turn eastward, and continued, "You must understand that since we still don't know who the murderer is—the person who shot Wang Lilan—we have to be prepared for any suspect to be able to fire at any time." He paused again, adding, "Not even Lu Jiansheng is an exception."

I thought this statement was somewhat abrupt again. "What? Not even Lu Jiansheng is an exception? Is he also a suspect?" Hawthorn's eyes were fixed on the center of the road. At this time, the car had entered the downtown area, and he had to be more careful while driving. Although I asked this impatient question, I felt a little embarrassed because it was really not appropriate to discuss such a difficult question with the driver at this time.

Hawthorn still replied calmly, "Who knows? I often tell you that when a scientist is engaged in research, he must not hold any preconceived notions. He must rely on a clear mind, keen observation, precise verification, and faithful collection of all materials that can be studied, and then he can draw a conclusion."

Strange, he actually started preaching. To be honest, since Lu Jiansheng was the one who made the accusation, he really didn't seem to have any motive to commit the murder. (63)

### New Women and Others

— Chen Duanbo

"Silk Mill Sisters," "Tin Package Ladies," "Sock Factory Women"... Are these unusual names respectful or insulting?

In China's old society, new women were despised and abandoned. People generally thought that a woman who entered a factory was as base and frivolous as someone engaged in the flesh trade. As a result, in low-taste, lower-class mouths, Silk Mill Sisters were incorporated into obscene tunes; and female workers in cigarette factories were called Tin Package "Shells." These are things we can hear everywhere. When factories are about to sound the whistle for the end of work, we can often find vulgar people on the street joking, flirting, and stalking female workers.

A factory has at least a few dozen female workers, and the most are in silk mills and cigarette factories, with the smallest still having hundreds. Their hometowns are different, and their origins are different. There are women from families; there are those squeezed out of schools; and most are so-called "country girls" who have fled from impoverished rural areas in search of food; and there are even matchmakers, population traffickers whose intentions are not where they seem. Produced in this multitude of heterogeneous crowd, there arise what "ten flowers," "adoption," "ten sisters," etcetera of strange occurrences are produced. As a result, simplicity is transformed into extravagance, caution is turned into frivolity. This group of young people with weak wills entering society for the first time, externally subject to the seduction of libertines, internally tempted by small sisters and shameless workers, how can they not fall into traps and cause all kinds of tragedies?

Last year, I worked at the ×× cigarette factory and saw with my own eyes that the upper-class bosses and intellectual staff also debased their character and used vulgar means, and they, driven by the whip of life, dared not have the slightest resistance. This is a fact, a fact without a single word of fabrication. Although I have also seen a few female workers who invite the libertines on themselves.

It is truly admirable that a productive woman lives day and night in the sound of machines. These female workers are all suffering various traumas for the sake of a cruel life, earning a few pitiful pieces of bread for their survival. But why do most of the female workers wear heavy makeup, dress up flamboyantly? And why do they curl their naturally black hair, and replace a simple, sturdy blue cloth cheongsam with a colorful printed foreign cloth one? I really dare not write any further, I cannot bear to write any further!

### Believe It or Not

— Ji

Trucks transporting rice will rent tank cars.

Rice shops are flocking to "Rice Robbery Insurance Companies" to insure against robberies.

Caterers' rice carriers are being modified to resemble heavy safes, slowly pushed along the streets.

Customers buying rice from rice shops, for purchases exceeding five dou, will be charged an "income grain" tax for the hungry populace according to the amount purchased.

Restaurants and hotels, depending on their size and level, will collect a "famine relief fund" from customers and set up a half-price canteen selling coarse food to the poor.

## Page 12

The Performing Arts World

### New Performers Coming South: Chronicle of Artistic Matters

— Yu Chu

Golden Stage and Renewal Stage: After the expiration of Mao Shi’lai and Tan Fuying’s performance period, they may take a break for a few days during the summer heat and open again when it is cooler in the autumn. Golden Stage has already finalized Li Shengzao, Tong Zhiling, Gao Shenglin, and other performers. Renewal Stage originally planned to invite Sun Yukun, Song Dezhu, Wang Hongfu, and others to perform for a period, but now it has been changed to Wu Suqiu taking the stage first. Therefore, Sun Yukun and his troupe must wait until Wu finishes performing before taking over and performing for half a month. This time, Wu Suqiu comes to Shanghai, and it is said that she has already invited Chi Shigong to fill the role of elderly male performer in her troupe. There is talk of Yu Zhenfei playing the role of young male performer, and negotiations are currently underway.

Looking at these two troupes, there are two performers whom the people of Shanghai have not yet met and who are making their debut in Shanghai: one is Tong Zhiling, and the other is Chi Shigong. The author knows a little about the background and artistic affairs of these two performers and records them below as an introduction.

Tong Zhiling

She is a rising star among female performers, who has been performing in the famous theaters of Tianjin, such as Beiyang and New Central. Many people support her, and she is very popular in the Tianjin area. Her father is a scholar, who, due to his poor family situation, ordered his daughter to learn performing arts to make a living. At first, she had no fame, but after being introduced and becoming a disciple of Gou Huisheng, her fame greatly increased, and her artistic skills also advanced rapidly. Recently, she went to Ping to perform, which was highly praised by all walks of life there. She has already been squeezed into the ranks of the top performers in Beijing. Zhiling is skilled in both flower-shirt roles and sword-and-horse roles. Her appearance is beautiful, her demeanor is quite healthy, her stage presence is good, and her voice is sweet. It is a pity that she cannot reach high notes. She is known for her masterpieces of Xun school operas such as "Rainbow Pass," "Jade Hall Spring," and "Mu Kezhai," and she also excels at performing the "Spinning Cotton" opera, which is most popular with the people of Shanghai.

Chi Shigong

He is a fifth-generation disciple of the Fuyuncheng Society. During his time at the society, he was known as one of the three outstanding elderly male performers, along with Qi Shichang and Sha Shixin. He is the grandson of the old performer Chi Zijun (Chi Zijun followed Lao Tan for many years and was good at performing ugly old woman roles such as "Visiting Relatives," and is still alive). He comes from a family of performers. His artistic skills are characterized by stability, unlike the younger generation of performers nowadays, who like to learn the Ma school, taking its flamboyant and easy-to-please style, but inevitably tend to be glib, superficial, and not worth imitating. Therefore, I particularly appreciate Shigong's ability to prioritize rules. His voice is high and bright, but slightly lacking in grandeur. He has passed the stage of voice change. Seeing that Sha Shixin's arrival in Shanghai coincided with the end of his voice change, his voice was dull and dark, resulting in a disappointing return, he is confident this time and should not repeat Sha Shixin's mistakes. Therefore, I am confident that his voice must have recovered and reached a solid state. His acting style is quite experienced and stable, his eyes are delicate and expressive, his dialogue is clear, his intonation is distinct, and his stage presence is also good. It is a pity that he is not good at wearing a back-flag, which limits his repertoire. This is his only weakness. Chen Gong in "Arresting and Releasing" and Kongming in "Lost City, Empty City, Beheading Ma Su" are both his signature plays.

### To the Comedic World

Comedic drama, since it was invented by Jiang Xiaoxiao (the late Wang Wuneng, chairman of the Comedic Guild), has been around for more than 20 years. In the past, it was very popular because it suited the tastes of the general public; but today, the number of comedic performers has sprung up like bamboo shoots after rain, which has created three dangerous phenomena for the comedic world itself. Out of love for the comedic world, the author frankly writes them below, hoping that the comedic world will pay more attention:

(1) Comedic drama is changing: Recently, most comedic performers only know to take the song lyrics, combine them with musical instruments, and sing them over and over like chanting scriptures, but they have neglected their main task—to make people burst out laughing; therefore, comedic performers have invisibly become small song singers, with name but without substance.

(2) Buying songs as singing material: A group of comedic performers do not use their brains and specialize in buying song lyrics without "jokes" and "meaning" from lyric writers, using them as their own song lyrics; therefore, people who like to listen are gradually disgusted and give up the desire to listen to comedic dramas.

(3) Stealing songs: There is also a group of people in the comedic world who, when they hear others singing a song, steal it and use it as their own singing material; therefore, if you can sing it, he can also sing it, making the general audience suffer from headaches.

The above three points are common phenomena in the comedic world recently. If they are not improved, they will inevitably gradually fall behind and be eliminated. I hope that all actors in the comedic world will be able to make improvements and open up a path to regeneration. This is not just the author's personal opinion, but those who love the comedic world also feel the same.

### The China United Film Company Previously Recruited More Than 30 Actors for Training, Including Six Actresses, to Film a Movie Together as Follows: (From Left to Right) Shangguan Yunzhu, Zhang Fan, Li Cheng, Wu Qing, Wang Muping, Zhang Ping.

— Photographed by Mu Yilong

### Trends Among American Movie Fans

— Tao

Not long ago, in order to understand the goals of movie fans, American filmmakers jointly held a voting-style film test to observe which type of film audiences liked the most. As a result, more than five million votes were collected, and after being categorized, it was discovered that movie fans loved comedies the most and hated crime films the most. The percentages of votes are recorded below:

Comedy — 32 percent.

Musical — 21 percent.

Ethical and literary film — 14 percent.

Historical and legendary film — 11 percent.

Tragedy — 9 percent.

War film — 7 percent.

Fantasy film — 4 percent.

Crime film — 2 percent.

### How Are Movies Made? (4)

— De Gang

(5) Deceiving the Audience with Optical Illusions: There are countless optical illusions in movies that deceive the audience and make them believe they are real. Let's take a few interesting and frequently encountered examples: In many films, audiences often see a mentally ill person or a friend trying to commit suicide, with both hands and feet clinging to the walls of a skyscraper, gradually climbing upwards, making people sweat with anxiety. When they reach the top, they even jump to the roof of the neighboring building. If they are not careful, they will definitely fall to their deaths. These dangerous and amazing stunts, when exposed, are not worth a penny. The original method is to pre-lay a set on the floor of the photography studio that resembles the walls of a tall building, and then ask the actor to crawl on the ground. The camera is placed on a very high ladder, and the photographer points the lens down at the ground, aiming at the actor to shoot. When the film is screened, it looks as if the real actor is climbing a high wall.

There is also an interesting technique for deceiving the audience, which is actors performing swimming (sometimes real) or drowning scenes. For example, performing drowning is extremely simple: the actor lies face up on the ground, moving both hands and feet in the air, pretending to struggle. The camera is placed very high, and the lens points downwards. A glass basin of water is placed in the empty space between the lens and the actor's body. The actor's movements are reflected through the water and captured in the film, which looks completely real. It is a very clever technique.

### Listening to Sounds

Zhang Xinqi said, "In spring, listen to the sound of birds; in summer, listen to the sound of cicadas; in autumn, listen to the sound of insects; in winter, listen to the sound of snow; during the day, listen to the sound of chess; under the moon, listen to the sound of the flute; in the mountains, listen to the sound of pine trees; by the water, listen to the sound of oars; only then will this life not be in vain. If there are the scolding and insults of young hooligans and shrewish wives, it is better to be deaf." Wang Mingyou said, "The sound of pine waves, the sound of waterfalls, the sound of flutes, the sound of tides, the sound of reading, the sound of bells, the sound of chanting are all suitable for listening from afar; only the sound of the qin, the sound of songs, the sound of snow cannot fully capture their nuances of separation, combination, rising, and falling unless listened to closely. I remember five or six years ago, on a summer night, boating on West Lake, the moonlight was hazy, the cool breeze was gentle, the boat was filled with melons and fruits, and Lan Xun played the flute. I ordered my female disciple, Man Sheng, to sing selections from The Peony Pavilion and The Jade Hairpin, etc. As the boat traveled along the shore, the lights on the buildings shone brightly, and the people on the buildings must have heard the sound, didn't they? I wonder if the two gentlemen, Zhang and Wang, would also enjoy listening to this sound? In general, although sound can be listened to, it must be accompanied by suitable scenery. Today, when listening to opera, one must look up to people to buy tickets, and then be squeezed in a crowd of smelly sweat, even if there is good sound, one lacks the elegant interest. Perhaps it is because the houses are narrow and the people are numerous in Shanghai, and one is confined to a small room, so it is better to be squeezed in the square, and there is also the pleasure of sound and color. However, I still hope that the theater owners can improve the three things: publicizing ticket sales, the attitude of the ticket sellers, and adding seats."

