### Germany and Italy Work Together: The War Enters a New Phase; The Significance of American Activity in the Near East is Great; Turkey's Position is Pivotal

Rome, 3rd (Havas) - The Italian newspaper recently reported that the meeting between the leaders of Germany and Italy in Salzburg is widely regarded as the prelude to a new phase of the war. As for the future military goals of the Axis powers, they are still unknown. What can be said at present is that: The three countries of Germany, Italy, and Japan have decided to continue fighting until victory is achieved on all battlefields. The three countries of Germany, Italy, and Japan possess a large amount of armaments for use, and therefore have great combat power. Germany and Italy have decided to assist each other on all fronts. In fact, isolated war fronts no longer exist. The two sides have only one common front in different theaters of war, and thus work together. Ordinary civilians are encouraged by confidence and a spirit of sacrifice. Workers in the rear can supply the front lines with the goods needed by the soldiers. Germany and Italy will be able to work together and assist each other in order to jointly resolve various wartime political issues. In other words, Germany should recognize and support the various demands under which Italy entered the war, while Italy should also support the legitimate demands of Greater Germany.

Washington, 4th (Havas) - President Roosevelt stated yesterday that the defense of Iraq and Iran is of "significant interest" to the United States, and therefore the "Aid to Democratic Nations Act" will also apply to these two countries. This statement has been commented on by diplomatic circles here, stating that these two countries have recently gained an important position in military strategy. The Allied and Soviet routes pass through Iran, and Iraq and Iran possess important oil fields. Therefore, the United States has made this decision. However, the White House communique did not specify how the United States will aid these two countries. According to convention, the government can implement the "Aid to Democratic Nations Act" to transport various goods to democratic nations. Accordingly, Iran and Iraq will receive a large amount of food and armaments from the United States. Since the two countries were occupied by the British and Soviet armies, the national economy has fallen into a state of chaos, so the need for food is very urgent. As for the United States supplying these two countries with armaments, it has great political significance. The Allies have no doubt about the loyalty of the people of these two countries. The two countries have provided promises that if their territory is invaded by Axis forces, they will provide military assistance to the Allies.

Stockholm, 3rd (Havas) - The Stockholm Times recently published a report from its Berlin correspondent stating that Turkey's position is arguably one of the main factors in the current European political situation. The general public here believes that Turkey's neutral position is not of a permanent nature. The future attitude of the Turkish government depends on the circumstances. There are various reliable sources stating that the leaders of Germany and Italy discussed this during their meeting in Salzburg. This move is extremely important, because Turkey has always pursued policies that are not entirely the same towards Germany and Italy. The two Axis powers are eager to coordinate their positions on Turkey.

Bucharest, 3rd (Havas) - Semi-official sources here recently stated that according to foreign sources, major events will occur in the Balkan Peninsula in the very near future. This statement seems to be for propaganda purposes and does not conform to the facts. There will be no action against Turkey. Countries in the Balkan Peninsula will also not exert pressure on the Turkish government politically, which can be seen from the fact that only a small number of troops are stationed on the borders of Turkey and Bulgaria and along the Aegean coast.

Budapest, 3rd (Havas) - Hungary's newly appointed Minister of Propaganda, Andar, recently stated that we should concentrate our energy and resources on the war effort, because the next few months will be the most serious and difficult period. The most intense war will occur in Europe, so the people must unite. This war is not only related to the integrity of our national territory, but also to the lives of the nation and individuals.

### Rumor: President Roosevelt Will Visit Churchill in England This Summer; London Has Neither Confirmed Nor Denied It

Stockholm, 4th (Haitong) - According to the "Sunday Express" correspondent in New York, President Roosevelt will cross the Atlantic by plane to visit British Prime Minister Churchill. This visit will take place at the latest in the summer. According to the correspondent, he was the first person to announce the Roosevelt-Churchill meeting in the Atlantic last year.

Stockholm, 4th (Haitong) - There are rumors that President Roosevelt will visit England soon. People in London have neither confirmed nor denied it. British political figures believe that it is not impossible. Before Roosevelt, few American presidents left the country during their term of office, but Roosevelt himself traveled to South America during his term of office. Moreover, when Wilson was president, he passed through London to attend the Paris Peace Conference. Swedish newspapers pointed out that if Roosevelt arrives in England, he will be warmly welcomed by the British people.

### Madagascar Intensifies Preparations; Reservists are Called Up

Port Louis (Mauritius), 4th (Reuters) - According to broadcasts received here from Madagascar, the Vichy authorities on the island have called up reservist officers and soldiers, who must undergo at least six months of training. According to initial reports, news of Madagascar calling up troops is rare, and the report that three French warships have arrived on the island confirms that Laval will intensify Madagascar's defenses after taking office.

### Laval Hosts Japanese Representatives; Guarantees French Friendship with Japan

Vichy, 3rd (Havas) - After arriving here, Rear Admiral Nomura, the Japanese representative to the Berlin Committee of the Tripartite Pact, and Rear Admiral Abe, the Japanese representative to the Vichy Committee, immediately dined at the Japanese Embassy and went to the French War Memorial to lay wreaths in the afternoon. At 4:30 p.m., accompanied by Japanese Ambassador to France Mitani, they met with Chief Laval for talks. The attitudes of both sides were very sincere. Chief Laval guaranteed French friendship with Japan. Rear Admiral Nomura replied that the close relationship between France and Japan would enable them to trust each other. The talks lasted for twenty minutes, but did not involve military or political issues. According to responsible sources, the friendly relationship between France and Japan makes this contact of a common nature, and it has no major political significance.

Vichy, 4th (Havas) - Government Chief Laval will host a public banquet tonight at the "Majestic Hotel" for Rear Admiral Nomura, the Japanese representative, and Rear Admiral Abe, of the Joint Committee of the Tripartite Pact of Japan, Germany, and Italy. Several government officials, Japanese Ambassador Mitani, and many members of the Japanese Embassy staff were present. The banquet lasted for two hours and ended at 10 p.m. The guests and hosts were very happy, and the naval band played music on the spot. Nomura and Abe will accompany Ambassador Mitani to lunch in the suburbs tomorrow.

### Gandhi May Return to Lead the Indian Congress Party; Former Chief Minister of Madras Insists on the Partition of India and Pakistan

Stockholm, 4th (Haitong) - British newspapers today confirmed that Gandhi's reputation is growing and that he may soon lead the Congress Party again. The resolution passed by the Congress Party Executive Committee with a majority vote last weekend was drafted by Gandhi. At that time, the current Congress Party leader Nehru advocated revising the wording of the proposal, but it was not adopted by the Executive Committee and was directly passed.

New Delhi, 4th (Reuters) - National Congress Party leader C. Rajagopalachari (former Chief Minister of Madras), who holds the sole view of partitioning India and Pakistan, resigned from the Standing Committee of the National Congress Party last week. His proposal to accept the partition demands of the Muslim League was rejected by the All-India Congress Committee at a meeting in Allahabad two days ago. Now Rajagopalachari plans to organize a people's government in Madras as the first step in implementing his new policy of establishing a people's front. According to Rajagopalachari, he is prepared to make major concessions to meet the demands of the Muslim League. Once the principle of accepting the partition demands of the Muslim League is accepted, details can be negotiated afterwards. This is the only way to achieve his desire to form a people's front and a people's government.

### Japanese Troops Continue to Make Progress in Mindanao; 30,000 American Troops Surrounded

A Japanese warship, 4th (Domei) - After controlling Davao Bay and Cotabato Bay, the Japanese fleet gained control of Macajalar Bay and Iligan Bay at dawn yesterday. 30,000 enemy remnants on the island are completely surrounded.

Philippine Front, 3rd (Domei) - Japanese aircraft attacked enemy military facilities in the Dansalan and Mamentgen areas of Mindanao Island yesterday afternoon, achieving great success. Another team of Japanese aircraft pursued American troops in the suburbs of Cotabato this morning, inflicting heavy losses on the enemy.

Baguio, Luzon, 4th (Domei) - According to sources here, Japanese troops launched an attack from Tarlac in central Luzon and continued to advance, occupying an area north of San Fernando. Other Japanese troops advanced along the west coast towards a key point in the northeast of Luzon. When the enemy remnants retreated, they burned villages and blew up highways and bridges along the way. However, the Japanese troops used a large number of prisoners from the Bataan Peninsula to carry out repairs.

Melbourne, 4th (Reuters) - The Allied Headquarters in the Southwest Pacific announced today that Japanese bombers, protected by fighter planes, attacked the airfield in Port Moresby, New Guinea, again yesterday. On the Philippine Islands, the communique mentioned that the artillery of both sides intermittently shelled each other. Japanese aircraft attacked Corregidor and Japanese troops on Mindanao Island continued to operate.

Washington, 4th (Reuters) - According to an announcement by the Department of War, the American flag hanging on Corregidor Island in Manila Bay was hit by Japanese artillery fire during the most intense shelling last Saturday, causing the flagpole to fall. Fortunately, Lieutenant Toffiazo, a member of the anti-aircraft artillery unit 60 yards away, saw this and immediately led three soldiers from the bomb shelter to rescue it. At that time, several dive bombers flew in to attack, which was extremely dangerous, but the flagpole was eventually repaired, and the American flag was able to continue flying on top of the fortress. When General Wainwright, the commander of the American forces, heard about this, he immediately awarded each of them a Silver Star to commend their courage.

### Opening a Second Battlefield: Public Opinion in Britain and America

London, 4th (Havas) - Editorials in this morning's "Observer" and "Sunday Times" both stated that it is difficult to open a battlefield in Europe. The intention of their arguments seems to be to satirize the public and tell them not to make such demands again. The "Observer" stated that it is difficult to imagine how difficult it is to concentrate and transport such a large army. A landing in front of the enemy requires attacking so many beaches to be effective. To complete such a battle, it is necessary to obtain complete air superiority over Brittany or the Cotentin Peninsula. In short, these kinds of issues are very complicated and it is best to let the government and the general staffs of the Navy, Army and Air Force decide. These kinds of actions should not be tried and retried. If you want to try it, you must complete it at any cost. The "Sunday Times" supported the government's policy of expanding the bomber fleet, and said that if a second battlefield is to be opened, its location does not have to be in France, but often in Italy.

Stockholm, 3rd (Havas) - The "Neue Zürcher Zeitung" correspondent in London recently sent news from the United States stating that the American people were originally very enthusiastic about establishing a second anti-German front, but now they have changed their attitude and are considering the various conditions that must be fulfilled beforehand. It can now be asserted that various discussions on this issue should not infringe on the various decisions of the military authorities, so as not to invade the value of all practical actions. Washington's views on the British bombing of the European continent are gradually approaching those of Moscow. In other words, Moscow also recognizes that although the British bombing of Europe is not a land battle, it has the form of a second front.

### Japanese Parliament to Convene at the End of the Month

Tokyo, 4th (Domei) - The Cabinet Information Bureau recently announced that the government will convene a special session of the Diet for two days starting on May 25 to obtain Diet approval for a bill to ensure the smooth implementation of the government's shipbuilding program and to clarify the government's policy on the establishment of a new Diet.

### Shigemitsu Aoi to Visit Manchuria

Changchun, 4th (Haitong) - Japanese Ambassador to Nanjing Shigemitsu Aoi arrived here yesterday, claiming that in view of the close relationship between China and Manchuria, he came to Changchun to visit in order to understand the situation in Manchuria. It is reported that Shigemitsu plans to visit Harbin, Shenyang, and Jehol, and then return to his post via Beiping.

### Japanese Army Abolishes the Western Calendar in Southeast Asia

Tokyo, 4th (Haitong) - The Japanese military headquarters has ordered the abolition of the Gregorian calendar used in Southeast Asia and replaced it with the Japanese calendar. Therefore, this year has been renamed the 2602nd year, instead of the 1942nd year.

### Guiyang Commemorates Youth Day

Guiyang, 4th - This morning, major middle school students and social youths in Guiyang held a Youth Day commemoration meeting. More than 5,000 youths attended, presided over by Huang Ziren, the chief of the Guiyang branch, and led the meeting. Student representatives gave speeches, and the emotions were fervent.

### Alumni Association of Great China University Raises 100,000 Yuan Fund

Guiyang, 4th - The Alumni Association of Great China University has recently launched local branches to raise a million yuan fund to engage in production and lay the economic foundation of the school. It is scheduled to be completed in September of this year.

### Zhang Qian Arrives in Chongqing

Chongqing, 4th - Zhang Qian, the newly appointed Director of the American Affairs Department, arrived in Chongqing by plane from India a few days ago.

### Chongqing Tobacco Monopoly

Macau, 4th (Haitong) - According to news received here, Chongqing implemented a tobacco monopoly system on the 2nd of this month. The Ministry of Finance has sent representatives to the tobacco-producing areas of the Northwest, Southwest, and Southeast provinces to study the steps for implementing the monopoly.

### Xu Shiying Arrives in Chongqing

Chongqing, 4th - Xu Shiying returned from the Yunnan-Burma border a few days ago. After completing his official duties, he flew from Kunming to Chongqing today.

## Page 3

### German Air and Sea Forces Attack British Convoy in Northern Europe; A British 10,000-Ton Ship is Hit by a Torpedo

German Headquarters, 4th (Haitong) - This afternoon, the German military report stated that German troops on the central route of Eastern Europe won a victory. In Lapland and on the Murmansk front, enemy attacks were repelled. German aircraft, submarines, and warships attacked enemy convoys in Northern Europe for several days. A British cruiser (10,000 tons) was hit by torpedoes twice and sank shortly afterwards. A small German destroyer squadron clashed with a destroyer fleet. Several enemy ships were damaged, and one of our ships was also damaged. Two enemy transports (12,000 tons) were torpedoed and are likely to sink. A submarine sank an enemy ship carrying military supplies (6,500 tons). Another enemy transport was torpedoed. Our combat group sank three merchant ships, totaling 19,000 tons, and a large cargo ship was severely damaged.

### Future Strategy of German Troops on the Eastern Front: The Line from the White Sea to the Caspian Sea Will be the Target of Attack

Stockholm, 3rd (Havas) - Military figures here recently stated that according to Berlin sources, Germany is about to launch a spring offensive, and its target is the line from Arkhangelsk (on the coast of the White Sea) to Astrakhan (on the coast of the Caspian Sea). Once the German troops reach this line, they do not intend to continue to advance. In fact, there is no need to continue operations, because at that time the Soviet Union's routes for obtaining assistance from foreign countries will be cut off. Berlin hopes to complete this goal before next winter. The winter was very cold, so the melting snow period this spring is longer than in previous years. Conversely, the war period is therefore shorter. For example, the Don River is usually only half a mile wide, but at this time it is about thirty miles wide. The same is true for the Donets River basin. In addition, German and Soviet troops are concentrated in the Rostov area waiting in formation. The German Air Force is becoming increasingly active, which can be regarded as the prelude to a major German offensive against Crimea and southern Ukraine. These two theaters are the only dry areas on the Eastern Front. However, before land warfare, the German Air Force must first attack the Soviet fleet that still controls the Black Sea. In addition, according to Soviet war reports, the Red Army has won some victories in the Kursk area and has occupied Fatezh, 30 miles northwest of Kursk. It is difficult to determine whether this counterattack by the Red Army is truly important. What is known is that the Red Army's major counterattack in the area seems to have come too late.

Soviet Counter-Attack Wins Victory on the Kalinin Front

Moscow, 4th (Reuters) - The Soviet Information Bureau's supplementary communique stated that there has been continued intense activity on the Northwest Front (Kalinin area). A Soviet team braved fierce resistance from German troops and occupied an important transportation line. A Soviet team in another area of the line forced the German troops to retreat. Also, the Soviet noon communique only stated that there was no major event on the front on the night of May 3.

### Ten Hostages Executed to Avenge the Death of a German Soldier

Lille, France, 4th (Havas) - The German military authorities in the occupied area here recently published an announcement in the "Echo du Nord" stating that on the 20th of last month, a German soldier was shot and killed by a Frenchman. The German military authorities executed ten hostages on the 30th of last month as retaliation, deported fifty people, and ordered seventy-two cafes in the city to close down. If the murderer is not caught within the next ten days, various harsh measures will be taken, such as imposing general restrictions on all people, executing more hostages, and deporting another group of people.

### Two German Generals Transferred from the Eastern Front to North Africa; British Attack on German Headquarters Not Confirmed

London, 4th (Reuters) - London today confirmed that German Generals Nehring and Bismarck have arrived in Libya. General Nehring was originally leading troops in the Soviet Union, but according to sources here, the arrival of the German generals does not mean that a large number of Axis troops have recently arrived in Libya. Also, today's communique from the British Middle East Headquarters stated that Soviet artillery fire dispersed small Axis transport and engineering teams.

Cairo, 4th (Havas) - London reported that a British commando attacked the headquarters of German General Rommel, the commander of the German army in North Africa, in Libya. Local officials have not been able to confirm this.

Berlin, 4th (Haitong) - The German military report stated yesterday that the German authorities in charge of the war in North Africa stated that when the German Air Force carried out an air raid on a concentration of British vehicles at a key point in Marmarica, the German low-flying attack repelled the British. The ground was covered with destroyed vehicles, totaling more than 30.

Cairo, 3rd (Havas) - The British Middle East Headquarters recently issued a communique stating that our aircraft were active last night. The aerodrome near Mytilene near Athens, the aerodrome near Maritsa on Rhodes Island, and the submarine base in Leros were all bombed by our aircraft. In North Africa, our aircraft targeted the port of Benghazi as the main attack target and bombed the Bales aerodrome in the port. Three German destroyers were shot down in aerial combat last night. Another was shot down by anti-aircraft guns. We also lost one aircraft.

### Religious Art Exhibition Opens in Paris

The modern religious art exhibition has now opened here. The exhibited treasures include paintings, engravings, buildings and inlaid objects.

### Defensive Exercises Held in London; German Army Forms Street Fighting Team to Defend the Atlantic Coast

Stockholm, 4th (Haitong) - London held an invasion exercise the night before last. Fierce "street fighting" broke out in many places. The Victoria Station area was the main combat area. First, heavy bombers were dispatched and flew in batches to the area. 1,500 paratroopers carried out a surprise attack. The National Guard was responsible for resisting the paratroopers and preventing the Fifth Column from bombing government offices and transportation facilities. The official has not yet released comments on the outcome of the exercise.

Rome, 3rd (Havas) - The "Il Popolo di Roma" Berlin correspondent recently reported that the German army recently formed a new type of unit called the "Street Fighting Team." When the British "commando" recently invaded the port of Saint-Nazaire in occupied France, they were the first to bear the brunt. The soldiers were all former paratroopers who were injured and could not fight on the front lines, so they retreated to participate in street fighting. At the same time, soldiers with rich experience in street fighting from the early days of the National Socialist Party also participated in the cooperation. The Street Fighting Team was organized in the autumn of last year, but it was greatly strengthened in January of this year and sent to the European front to deal with ambushes. The number of members has now increased, and they are responsible for protecting the various ports under German occupation on the Atlantic coast. This unit has developed a new tactic, which may open a new era for modern warfare, just as the emergence of paratroopers changed the aerial warfare strategy. The two are exactly the same.

### Seventy-Two Soviet Officers Promoted to Major General

Moscow, 4th (Havas) - It has been learned that the Soviet People's Committee has promoted seventy-two army officers to the rank of Major General.

### Exeter, Southwest of London, Bombed by German Aircraft This Morning; Six German Aircraft Shot Down

London, 4th (Reuters) - The British Air Ministry announced this morning that British bombers attacked Hamburg, Germany, last night despite unfavorable weather. German aircraft also launched a fierce attack on Exeter in southwest England this morning. The damage there was quite heavy, and several people were killed or injured. German aircraft also flew to other places and dropped a few bombs, causing minor damage, but there were no deaths or injuries. A total of six German aircraft were destroyed.

London, 3rd (Havas) - The Air Ministry recently issued a communique stating that British aircraft were extremely active over the English Channel. This morning, they flew to northern France again to drop bombs. They shot down three German aircraft in aerial combat.

Stockholm, 3rd (Havas) - Two British pilots who participated in the bombing of Trondheim Harbor on the night of April 27 were forced to land in Norway. After crawling 30 miles in the mountains, they sneaked into the Swedish border. They were hungry and exhausted along the way. They finally arrived at a Swedish border station yesterday, but they were all exhausted. They were detained by the Swedish military authorities.

Paris, 4th (Haitong) - More than 50 Parisians died in a British air raid on Paris on the night of April 29. They were buried in the northwestern suburbs of Paris today. Labor Minister Lagardelle, representing Marshal Pétain, Platon, representing Prime Minister Laval, and Brinon, the French government's envoy to the occupied area, all participated in the funeral. A solemn memorial Mass for the deceased compatriots was held in a church in the suburbs the day before yesterday, presided over by Bishop Suhard.

Air Raid Alert Issued in Marseille

Vichy, 4th (Haitong) - Last night, an aircraft of unknown nationality flew over Marseille. Forty-five French anti-aircraft guns fired simultaneously. At the same time, an air raid alert was issued in the city and all lights were turned off. However, no bombs fell. An aircraft of unknown nationality was also discovered over Toulon on the same night, and anti-aircraft guns also fired.

### Greek Government Reorganized

Cairo, May 3 (Havas) - Reuters reports that the Greek government has been reorganized, merging the Army, Navy, and Air Force into a Ministry of National Defense, headed by Prime Minister Tsouderos concurrently as Minister. Admiral Kavvadias is appointed as Deputy Navy Minister, General Nikolaidis as Deputy Air Force Minister, and temporarily as Deputy Army Minister. Additionally, National Unity Party leader Sinelopoulos serves as Cabinet Coordinator. Former Army Minister Dimitrakis is transferred to the post of Justice Minister and will soon travel to the United States on official business.

### Norwegian Political Prisoners Transferred to Poland

Stockholm, Sweden, May 4 (Havas) - Local newspapers report that numerous Norwegian political prisoners have been transported to Poland and imprisoned. Professor Key of the University of Oslo is also among them.

### US February Draftees to Enter Service Next Month

Lisbon, May 4 (Haitong) - Washington announces that draftees aged 35 to 40, registered in February in the United States, will enter service in June. The number of those conscripted and their destinations have not yet been announced.

### President Roosevelt's Son Leaves Cairo

May 3 (Havas) - President Roosevelt's son, Major Elliott Roosevelt, has completed his inspection in the Middle East and has departed.

### Presidential Election in Colombia

Buenos Aires, May 4 (Haitong) - As of now, in the Colombian presidential election, Liberal Party candidate López holds a significant lead with 1,395,000 votes. His opponent, Velez, has only 4,784 votes. No unexpected incidents have occurred during the election.

### Peruvian President Prado to Visit Venezuela

Lima, Peru (Havas) - Sources in the United States report that Peruvian President Prado has accepted an invitation from the President of Venezuela and will soon visit the Venezuelan capital.

### Iranian Diplomat Leaves Japan for Home

Tokyo, May 4 (Haitong) - Following the severance of diplomatic relations between Japan and Iran, the staff of the Iranian legation in Japan will leave today for Tehran. They are reported to be returning via Siberia. Political figures here suggest that Iran's severance of relations with Japan was due to pressure from London, and therefore Japan is still treating the legation staff with utmost courtesy.

Tokyo, May 4 (Domei) - Responsible parties here announced today that regarding the Iranian government's request for the Japanese envoy to lower the flag and return home, the Japanese government, considering the longstanding friendship between the two countries, believes that the Iranian government's actions are due to British instigation. Therefore, they have requested the Iranian government to reconsider. The Japanese envoy and embassy staff have already left the Iranian capital and are returning home via Siberia. The Iranian envoy to Japan is also scheduled to leave Tokyo within days, traveling via Siberia.

### Australia to Implement Food Rationing

Saigon, May 4 (Haitong) - It is learned here that Australia may implement food rationing in the near future. This was announced by Australian Minister for Supply Percy Spender in Canberra.

Canberra, May 3 (Havas) - Australian Federal Minister for Supply Spender recently informed the nation that Australia may ration certain foods. To address the immediate problem, the Ministry intends to order existing inventories to be released and even control the consumption of various foods. Furthermore, farmers and landowners are encouraged to increase food production as a fundamental solution.

### Portugal to Hold Air Defense Drills

Lisbon, May 4 (Haitong) - Lisbon and other major Portuguese cities will hold large-scale air defense drills in June. According to newspaper reports, residents of all cities will participate, with fines for non-compliance. The drills will be jointly conducted by the Army and the Portuguese Legion.

### Sugar Rationing Begins Today in New York

New York, May 3 (Havas) - Registration for sugar and various food rationing will begin tomorrow. 130 million sugar purchase certificates will begin to be distributed. Rationing will begin on the 5th, with the first phase lasting eight weeks. Each person will receive four purchase certificates, allowing them to purchase four pounds of sugar.

### Congressional Elections in Bolivia

La Paz, Bolivia, May 3 (Havas) - Elections are being held for both houses of the Bolivian Congress, with nine senators and fifty-four representatives to be elected. The Republican Party, Socialist Party, and Liberal Party have all nominated candidates.

### Uruguay and Bolivia Discuss Petroleum Issues

Montevideo, Uruguay, May 3 (Havas) - Several representatives of the Bolivian petroleum industry arrived here today to discuss with local experts the possibility of importing Bolivian petroleum into Uruguay by land. Due to a lack of oil tankers, Uruguay is concerned about a shortage of petroleum supplies.

### Swiss Citizens Reject Reorganization of Federal Council

Bern, Switzerland (Havas) - A referendum was held today on the proposal to amend the current Swiss Federal Council system. It was rejected by a large majority of 408,646 votes to 219,405. The proposal aimed to reduce the number of Federal Council members from 187 to 139 and to prevent council members from being eligible for election after serving two consecutive terms.

### North African Battlefield

The situation in North Africa has quieted down somewhat due to the rain and snow of the past week. The Allied and Axis powers are merely using artillery to support each other, with mutual bombardment, and there is no real progress in the overall situation. North Africa, along the Mediterranean coast, has been a site of contention since ancient times, and it is unknown when the current war will end. Fighting here is indeed extremely arduous, with temperatures sometimes falling below freezing and southeast winds blowing from the desert plateau in summer, as hot and fiery as ashes. The upper picture shows a highway in the vast desert of Libya, one connecting Tripoli to the Tunisian border, and the other crossing Libya to Egypt. The lower picture shows the Suez Canal, which was built by French engineers between 1859 and 1869, but was taken over by the British in 1875. The picture shows Port Said, which is the gateway to the Suez Canal.

India Problem Special

### India's Trade and Currency System (Part 1)

India is a large peninsula in southern Asia, protruding between the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. Most of its area is in the tropics. Due to topographical factors, climates vary across regions, but most areas are very hot and humid. Therefore, India's agricultural production is rich not only in tropical plants, but also in temperate products. Rice, wheat, cotton, jute, tea, sugar cane, and tobacco, rubber, etc., are India's main products. Because India has been under British rule for the past hundred years, and its area is twenty times that of Britain, and its population accounts for almost one-fifth of the world's total, India remains the most prosperous of all British colonies. The jute consumed by Britain is entirely imported from India. Ninety percent of the tea, sixty percent of the rice, and raw cotton for textiles needed by the British also come from India. At the same time, India is Britain's largest market for goods. Although the average annual income of Indians is among the lowest in the world, and the value of British goods consumed per capita is also the lowest among the colonies, Britain still considers India an important market for its industrial products because of its large population. The statistics of the value of India's main exports and imports from 1937 to 1938 and from 1938 to 1939 are recorded below:

From the above table, it can be seen that India's main exports are raw cotton, tea, and jute, while its main imports are machinery, cotton yarn, and cotton fabrics. As a result of the British government's trade policies, most of India's raw materials are exported to Britain, and then manufactured into goods and resold in the Indian market. From the perspective of importing machinery, India does have a gradual trend toward industrialization, but 90% of Indians are still engaged in agriculture, and most of the population is concentrated in rural areas. Apart from the textile industry, the process of general industrialization is very slow, and the development of heavy industry is even more nascent. Therefore, India is still an agricultural colonial country, and its trade is entirely controlled by the home government, unable to be independent and autonomous, for the sake of India's own economic interests.

## Page 4

### Various Businesses in the French Concession Still Maintain Current Tax Rates. The Shanghai Municipal Council (SMC) is not planning to follow suit regarding periodic tax increases. Public utility services in the International Settlement may successively increase prices.

Mr. Pei Dai, Director of the Taxation Department of the French Municipal Council, told our reporter yesterday that the French authorities had no knowledge of the SMC's implementation of a telephone tax from May 1 and had not considered taking similar steps. Therefore, the telephone tax does not apply to the French Concession; its implementation is limited to the International Settlement. Furthermore, the SMC's imposition of a bill tax on hotels, restaurants, etc., from May 8, the collection of retail tax from June 1, and the increase of house tax to 50% from July 1, etc., will not affect the French Concession. Regarding the entertainment tax, the SMC will increase it by 20% from May 8, totaling 30%, but the French authorities will maintain the status quo. When asked whether the French authorities would follow the SMC and impose or increase similar taxes in the future, Mr. Pei replied that, under the current circumstances, the Municipal Council has not considered making any changes to taxes.

Telephone and Gas May Increase Prices

The English-language Shanghai Evening Post & Mercury reports that tram fares in the French Concession have recently increased. It is rumored that the Shanghai Tramways Company (SMC) authorities are now considering taking similar measures to raise fares. Details are not yet known, but it is generally believed that fares will increase by about 70% to 100%. Well-informed sources believe that other public utilities, such as the telephone company and the gas company, are also planning to increase service fees to a minimum to cover expenses.

### Overview of Various Industries Last Month. Worker numbers halved, vehicle factories busiest.

According to the report of the Industry and Social Affairs Department of the Shanghai Municipal Council for April, of the 1,149 idle factories and workshops in part of western Shanghai, only 640 are still in operation, accounting for 56%. Many of these are only partially operational. Of the remaining 44%, half are closed and half have relocated. After personnel were sent to inspect the factories and workshops, it was found that a total of 38,500 workers were employed before, but now only 22,000 are employed, accounting for about 57%. The most important factor in whether factories and workshops can continue to operate is whether they can purchase rice. Previously, it was stipulated that only factories and workshops employing 50 workers could apply to the Bureau for the purchase of rice. Later, this was changed to allow those employing 30 workers to apply. This change has improved the employment situation. However, some smaller workshops still have their workers go to buy rice during the day and only work for a few hours at night.

Among the machinery and hardware industries, those involved in vehicle manufacturing are the busiest. Each factory manufactures various parts and components of bicycles, such as frames, wheels, spokes, freewheels, chains, and bells. Larger electroplating workshops that still have electroplating materials in stock are busy electroplating various parts of vehicles. Forging workshops are busy forging charcoal burners for freight cars and bicycle frames. It is said that charcoal briquettes for making ethyl alcohol are in very short supply and are difficult to purchase.

Only one silk reeling factory is open, employing about 250 workers, but it has only been open for a few weeks. Regarding cotton mills, only small and medium-sized factories are open, while larger ones are not. All paper mills feel the lack of fuel and raw materials for papermaking. As for cigarette factories, the higher the price of local cigarettes, the more it encourages the opening of small factories to manufacture inferior cigarettes. The opening of cigarette factories increases the work of printing factories, because making paper boxes and printing trademarks cannot be done without printing factories.

In the past two months, several trade associations have been established to represent several types of manufacturing industries as a medium for applying for export permits. Therefore, all members of these associations hope to obtain a supply of raw materials through their organizations to continue operating and employ workers.

Implementation of Rules for Transferring Rental House Licenses. The method of obtaining licenses for transferring rental houses has been implemented since April 1. Restricting the rent charged by sub-lessors is one of the purposes of requiring licenses. The rent should be calculated in accordance with the regulations, and the sub-lessor can only make a profit of 20%. A total of 36,000 licenses were issued this month, and 125 appeals were handled. Among them, 97 were cases of sub-tenants complaining about excessive rent charged by sub-lessors, and 28 were requests for assistance due to threats of eviction. The nationalities of the appellants included nine countries. Among the cases handled, 41 were adjusted and accepted by both parties, 15 were resolved through mediation of evictions and other disputes, 21 were summoned for face-to-face instructions, and 31 were still under investigation. There were also several other cases that fell outside the scope of the license rules.

Improved Sanitary Conditions in Factories. The factory sanitation program has made some progress. The first mobile clinic for workers has been established. The six briquette factories located near the clinic have agreed to pay the salary of the nurse who will visit each factory daily. The nurse serves 465 workers and manages expenses of 1,115 yuan for three months, which has been paid by the factories. Each factory has been given a box of bandages and supplies. The nurse visits each factory daily to inspect the sanitary conditions, which has significantly improved. The nurse has gained the trust of the workers and is valued by the factory.

A meeting of factory doctors and nurses was convened in April, which was a first. Representatives from 18 factories, totaling 15 people, attended. The purpose of the meeting was to make the factory feel responsible for improving the general health conditions in the factory, and not limited to only providing medical treatment for already sick workers. Fourteen factories now report on the health conditions of approximately 5,700 workers employed in a uniform manner. Among those examined by the mobile clinic, minor hand injuries were the most common, followed by athlete's foot.

Adult Workers' Art Schools. The adult workers' art schools established in the east and west districts continue to operate without interruption, even though some students have dropped out because their factories have closed. There are now more than 120 students who come to school regularly to study three times a week in the evening. The courses are machine workshop practice, strength of materials theory, workshop calculation, and physics. The Public Works Department has agreed to hold experiments on the strength of materials, such as tensile strength, compressibility, bending, and hardness, in the department's material testing laboratory. Fifteen senior students attended.

Mediation of Labor Disputes. In April, a total of nine labor disputes were mediated, involving 815 workers. Two of them were strikes, and seven were cases of unrest. The disputes were mainly related to wages and severance pay for layoffs and dismissals. There were also seven other cases that did not lead to disputes because the two sides held consultations. Wages and severance pay were all settled through mutual agreement. In April, there were two fatal accidents. In one case, compensation and funeral expenses totaling 3,000 yuan were given to the family, and in the other case, only compensation of 1,500 yuan was given.

Inspection of Steam Pressure Machines. In April, four applications were received for the inspection of steam pressure machines. A total of 42 inspection certificates valid for twelve months were received.

### Evacuation of British and American Nationals Still Pending Implementation

According to related sources, the registration and evacuation of British, American, and other foreign nationals in this city has been underway for some time, but the negotiation on the exchange of officials and civilians has not yet reached a final decision. It was previously said that two Japanese postal ships would depart from Shanghai at the end of this month, heading to Portuguese East Africa, so that the British and American nationals concentrated in Shanghai could take this opportunity to evacuate. This statement has been officially confirmed and is beyond doubt. However, how the situation will develop will depend on the various developments within this month. There are thorough plans for the exchange of nationals, and efforts will be made to promote its realization. There are 4,854 British nationals and 1,182 American nationals in the two concessions. Almost all American nationals have registered, but only half of the British nationals have done so. This is because the history of British nationals in Shanghai is longer than that of American nationals, and group evacuation does not seem appropriate. On the American side, the original number was over 4,000, but since October of last year, they have been evacuating batch by batch back to their country, especially women and children. Most of those who remain in Shanghai are people with important business in Shanghai. It is also learned that more than 100 British and American diplomats, consuls, and ordinary expatriates in North China and South China have been sent to Shanghai for evacuation. Most of them are staying at the Cathay Hotel and the American School.

### Extending the Time for Selling Rice at Fixed Prices

Yesterday, the Shanghai Municipal Council Rice Administration Committee continued to issue rice sales permits to 372 rice shops in the two concessions. After the rice shops received the sales permits, they paid to the Rice Office and, starting today, can pick up the rice at Lihe Warehouse, No. 195 Suzhou Road, for sale on Friday. Yesterday, half of the rice shops in the two concessions were selling foreign rice, and the time for sale has been extended, starting from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Because the rice warehouses are also open on Sundays for rice shops to pick up rice, the sales situation on Monday has been generally good. The rice sold at the Swire Warehouse and the Xingye Warehouse is still rice from Wuhu. The total amount of this rice is 50,000 bags, and the remaining portion can be allocated for one week.

### Terror Drills Held in the Jing'an and Chengdu Road Police Districts

According to the news agency, at around 2:00 p.m. yesterday, the Shanghai Municipal Council Jing'an Police Station held terror drills in the area around Maybach Road and Parker Road. Traffic was temporarily blocked at that time, and the drill ended after about an hour. It is also learned that the Chengdu Road Police Station also held the drill in its jurisdiction at the same time.

### Stealing Rice Tickets from Chinese Police, Sentenced to 40 Days Detention

The Gordon Road Police Station provided the entire Chinese police and staff with rice at a fixed price of 3.5 liters for 5.2 yuan per person. Unexpectedly, the workers in the rice warehouse colluded with the rice shop to falsify the rice measurement sent to the police station, stealing rice tickets and shorting more than 30 dan. The case was discovered and two Chinese constables, Zhao Zhide and Zhu Shuisheng, were sent for interrogation. Yesterday morning, five people, including workers Zhu Peizhu, Zhu Peiyao, Cai Mingxiang, and rice shop clerks Hou Xiangquan and Mi Chenglin, were sentenced to 40 days detention each as a warning.

### Wireless Radio Communication Resumed Between Shanghai and Macau

The Shanghai Times reports that the China Wireless Telephone Company has resumed wireless radio communication between Shanghai and Macau, and started receiving and sending messages from May 1. The wireless radio communication between Shanghai and Tokyo, and Xiamen has also been opened.

### Goods Stored in Customs Warehouses Must Be Picked Up by the End of Next Month. The Deadline Has Been Extended Repeatedly Due to the Unsettled Situation to Prevent Speculators from Taking Advantage

Imported goods stored in the Jianghai Customs warehouses have been allowed to extend the pickup period repeatedly due to the unsettled situation. The extension to pick up the goods stored in the customs warehouses, which was extended to March 31 of this year, has now been confirmed to be picked up by June 30, and the Jianghai Customs General Affairs Department has notified the owners of the goods.

### A Decorated Carriage

In the past, brides mostly regarded sitting in a sedan chair as a grand ceremony in their lives. After carriages became popular in the early 20th century, brides mostly loved to ride in carriages. Later, the fashion was to use cars. Without servants, they sped away, which was light and convenient. Recently, cars have been restricted, and it seems inappropriate for brides to ride in chartered cars. Finally, carriages modified from car bodies have risen in popularity. The picture on the left is one of them, with ribbons and flags tied in front of the car. The sound of horses' hooves is quite elegant and luxurious. Double-horse carriages are not common.

### Re-entry Permits Temporarily Suspended Issuance. Issuance Will Resume Once New Permits Are Printed. Holders of Valid Permits Can Still Pass Through Japanese Checkpoints

The Shanghai Municipal Council's office for issuing special re-entry permits for returning home has temporarily suspended the issuance of re-entry permits because the re-entry permits issued last month had the words "Certificate for Half-Price Transportation" printed on the back page. Since the half-price coupon has been canceled from May 1, this re-entry permit is no longer applicable and needs to be reprinted.

Notice of Temporary Suspension of Issuance

Due to the above reasons, the Shanghai Municipal Council Building Re-entry Permit Office issued a public notice stating, "The issuance of special re-entry permits for returning home is temporarily suspended and will be announced again when it resumes. Shanghai Municipal Council Re-entry Permit Office." The branch offices in various districts have also temporarily suspended the issuance of special re-entry permits for returning home. The re-entry permits for returning home that have not been issued by the various Shanghai native place associations and social organizations last month have also been taken back by the Shanghai Municipal Council Chinese Evacuation Committee because they are no longer applicable. The committee has sent personnel to contact and collect the new permits, and will temporarily suspend issuance until the new permits are received.

Unobstructed Passage from Shanghai with Valid Permits

Regarding the design of the special re-entry permit for returning home, according to the Datong News Agency reporter, it is generally the same as the previous ones, only the half-price wording on the back page has been canceled. Those who have obtained this permit will have no problem passing through the security line to return home, because the Japanese side has announced that it is necessary to present a county or city certificate or a certificate from the relevant authorities to pass through the security line. The re-entry permit is one of the relevant certificates. However, those who obtain a re-entry permit to leave Shanghai will not be allowed to return to Shanghai after passing through the security line. The Chinese Evacuation Committee received a letter from the Wenzhou Shanghai Native Place Association yesterday stating that a large number of fellow villagers have applied for special re-entry permits for returning home. 100 re-entry permits have been issued for distribution. The association will distribute them to various groups to continue processing after receiving them.

## Page 5

### Many Sublease Licenses Have Not Been Obtained. Investigation of Sub-Lessors Who Have Not Obtained Licenses. Do Not Wait and See to Avoid Penalties

Since the Public Concession sublease house licenses were issued by the Shanghai Municipal Council Tax Division and the Northwest and East sub-offices on the 1st of last month, only over 30,000 have been issued until the end of last month. There are still many sub-lessors who have not obtained licenses. The Shanghai Municipal Council has given a slight penalty to those sub-lessors who are waiting to see. Those who apply for licenses between the 1st and 15th of this month must pay an additional late fee of 5 yuan. Among those who applied for licenses during this extension period, a total of 1,054 were issued on May 1, and on May 2, 18 were issued in the Central District, 50 in the West District, 19 in the North District, and 176 in the East District, totaling 274. The sub-lease housing management office has sent personnel to various districts to conduct a strict investigation into sub-lessors who have not applied for licenses, in order to punish them.

### A Young Girl's Torrid Affair with Her Stepfather Leads to Bigamy Charges

Cai Yaoting, a 24-year-old Suzhou native, works at Xingchang Electrical Supplies at 465 Xin Zha Road. In 1937, Cai's wife died of illness, so his aunt arranged for him to marry Shen Shu'an, a 32-year-old woman from Jingjiang. Shen had previously been a concubine to Xue Peikang, but she left due to disagreements and then married Cai. They lived together above the Xingchang Electrical Supplies store, and had a daughter named Hudi, who is now five years old. They lived peacefully. However, two years ago, Xue Peikang's younger sister, Yin Huizhen (33 years old, from Ningbo, with the same mother but a different father as Xue), who was on good terms with Shen Shu'an as sisters-in-law, visited frequently, leading to her acquaintance with Cai. Over time, affection grew, and their secret affair occurred more than once. Yin became pregnant, her belly swelling. Yin then demanded that Cai hold a formal wedding ceremony, threatening suicide otherwise. Cai was in a dilemma. He hired lawyer Fan Gang to publish a notice of his engagement to Yin Huizhen. On May 18th of last year, he participated in a group wedding organized by the Ningbo Fellow Villagers Association, renting a separate residence at No. 1, Lane 4145, Xin Zha Road. Soon after, a daughter was born, who is now two years old. However, after Shen Shu'an saw the news of her husband's engagement to Yin Huizhen, she hired lawyer Zhang Danping to publish a rebuttal, declaring that Shen was Cai's legal wife. Recently, Yin Huizhen reported to the Xin Zha Police Station, claiming that she only discovered Cai was already married after she married him, and was unaware of it beforehand. She requested a thorough investigation. After investigation by Chinese detective Chen Yunjing, based on the facts, it was determined that Yin was aware of the bigamy, and both Cai and Yin were prosecuted. It is said that since the lawsuit, both parties have been facing rising living costs. If Cai is imprisoned, it will be difficult to make a living in the future. Therefore, they have hired lawyers to mediate. Whether a peaceful resolution can be reached remains to be seen.

### Child Prostitute Xu Didi Dies Young: Unable to Endure Abuse, She Jumped from a Building and Died of Injuries Yesterday Morning

Feng Chen, a 51-year-old woman from Suzhou, lives at 81 Houjie, Lujiabang, Nanshi. Her husband was a coppersmith who died of illness last year. She has only one daughter, named Amao, who is 16 years old. Mother and daughter rely on each other for survival. Due to financial hardship, in August of last year, Chen placed Amao in the Hongxiang Courtyard, Room 16 of the Yaoer Brothel at 1 Dongxinqiao Road, French Concession. The madam, Xiangfei, a fellow villager named Xu Amei, 29 years old, received 300 yuan as the girl's price for a six-year term. Amao was renamed Xu Didi and began her life in the brothel. A Kunshan native named Lu Wenxin, a 33-year-old owner of a lime boat, would visit the Hongxiang Courtyard every time he transported and sold lime in Shanghai. On the afternoon of the 27th of last month, Lu Wenxin visited the Hongxiang Courtyard again. Seeing that Amao was a young, budding prostitute, he agreed with the madam Xu Amei on a price of 200 yuan, paying 100 yuan upfront. They agreed that if the girl was a virgin, he would pay the remaining sum the next day. That night at midnight, Lu took Xu Didi to the Da Hu Hotel, opening Room 426 for coitus. Because the girl was not fully developed, the experience was painful. Considering her future and the bleak prospect of happiness, she became short-sighted. At 4 AM, she jumped from the window to commit suicide. People discovered her and reported it to the police, who sent the injured girl to Guangci Hospital for treatment. Meanwhile, the police detained the customer Lu Wenxin and the madam Xu Amei for investigation. Xu Didi died of her injuries yesterday morning at 6 AM. The police sent the body to the coroner's office. Yesterday, the mother, Feng Chen, claimed the body for burial.

### Zhejiang Postal Administration Announces Recruitment for Postal Assistants

The Zhejiang Postal Administration announced: In accordance with the order from the Directorate General of Posts, an examination for postal assistants will be held in this district. Those who possess the following qualifications and wish to apply may request an application form from this office (self-prepared forms are invalid), along with a diploma, three recent half-length photos (4-inch), and an application fee of one national currency unit, either submitting them in person or sending them by registered mail to the Ancient City Office of this office.

Examination Method:

The qualifications, subjects, and dates are listed below: Gender: No gender restriction. Age: 20 to 30 years old. Qualifications: Graduation from a public or registered private junior high school or other equivalent school, with a diploma. Examination Subjects: First Stage: Chinese, Three Principles of the People, Elementary Foreign Language, Chinese History and Geography, Arithmetic, General Knowledge. Second Stage: Interview. Application Location: Ancient City Office, Zhejiang Postal Administration. Application Date: From April 10th, 1942, to May 10th, 1942. Physical Examination Date: To be notified separately by letter after confirmation. Examination Location: Lishui or Ancient City; to be notified separately by letter after qualification review. Examination Date: First Stage: June 10th and 11th, 1942. Second Stage: To be notified after the completion of the first stage. Number of Positions to be Filled: 100. Additional Notice: Applicants' letters should clearly indicate "Postal Assistant Examination Committee, Ancient City Office, Zhejiang Postal Administration, Songyang" on the envelope. Original documents and stamps are not required.

### Shanghai Municipal Council Budget for This Year (5)

(B) Pensions and Other Retirement Benefits: $2,034,220. The same expenditure in the ten-year budget reached $7,610,540, a significant difference compared to this year. The reason is that this year's budget is based on purely paying out cash and only to immediate recipients. Although the amount paid is limited, the unpaid amount this year will be fully paid when the situation returns to a more normal state.

(C) Subsidies and Exempted Taxes: $1,289,500. Within this amount, $486,280 is for exempted taxes. Because the current tax rates are higher, the amount of exemption is much greater than last year. The remainder includes a subsidy of $342,000 for the Rickshaw Pullers Mutual Aid Association, $150,000 for relief to beggars, $200,000 for refugee relief, and miscellaneous subsidies of $111,220 to be considered by the newly organized Special Subsidy Committee.

(D) Rent for Leased Buildings: $220,440. This expenditure includes rent for buildings leased by various police stations, $71,600; rent for school buildings, $95,650; rent for the orchestra's performance venue, $19,800; and other smaller rents.

(E) Interest and Commissions, etc.: $4,005,350. An increase of $260,020 compared to the adjusted amount listed in last year's budget.

The interest payable on outstanding and planned-to-be-borrowed public bonds calculated in Chinese general currency, as well as retirement savings and other employee reserve funds, are included in the budget. However, the interest on the £427,000 public bond calculated in British currency cannot be paid in foreign currency at this time and is not included in the budget. The original amount of this public bond was £435,000, and its collateral is bonds issued to banks that previously had dealings with the Municipal Council.

The dividend on the Shanghai Waterworks Company's stocks calculated in British currency under the name of the Municipal Council is also not included in the budget for the same reason. However, the interest on other investments held by the Municipal Council that are calculated in Chinese general currency is assumed to continue to be received and is therefore included in the budget.

(F) Repayment of Public Bonds: $3,146,390. This expenditure includes the periodic allocation of funds for the repayment of long-term public bonds, as well as the semi-annual repayment of short-term public bonds issued in 1940 and last year. These two types of short-term public bonds are secured by designated franchise operations and entertainment taxes, according to the custody contract.

(G) Temporary Income

The total income from all sources, including the surplus of $1,037,870 carried over from the previous year, is $14,217,870. Proceeds from the sale of surplus land are approximately $100,000. Miscellaneous income is approximately $80,000. Funds to be raised from the issuance of public bonds or other methods are $12,000,000.

(H) Temporary Expenses This is a nominal amount to cover the cost of slightly extending the embankment during the year if necessary.

Drainage Costs: $5,000,000. This expenditure is the remaining amount required for flood prevention facilities in the Northwest and Central West Districts. The principle of this facility has been approved, but it can only be implemented when funding is available. The cost of adding drains due to new private construction is also included. The majority of these expenses must be borne by private individuals.

Sewer Costs: $40,000. This expenditure is a total of $100,000 to cover the cost of adding sewers due to new private construction, of which approximately $60,000 can be borne by private individuals. Other than this, there are no plans to add sewers in any location this year.

Real Estate Costs: $53,000. Of this, $40,000 is used to purchase and raise the ground of the Hongqiao Cemetery to expand the burial area. The remaining $13,000 is used to purchase land for building toilets and for purchasing surplus land when acquiring real estate for widening or extending roads.

Building Costs: $158,850. Less than last year's budget by $195,320. The more important items of this type of budgeted expenditure for this year are as follows:

(A) Office Headquarters Building: $2,000. This fund is used to purchase a supplementary cooling machine for the existing refrigeration equipment in the Jiangtian storage room.

(B) Fire Department: $11,900. This fund includes the cost of converting oil-fired boilers to coal-fired boilers and various small projects.

(C) Police Department: $81,600. This fund is for construction costs in various police stations and their dormitories. In detail: Central Police Station and Police Department Headquarters, $13,200; Gordon Road Police Station, $27,100; Lao Zha Police Station, $3,000; Yulin Road Police Station and Reserve Team, $1,300; Carter Road Police Station, $1,300; Hongkou Police Station, $2,000; Baoding Road Dormitory, $2,500; the remainder is for converting oil-fired boilers to coal-fired boilers, approximately $19,800, and various small project costs, $11,400.

(D) Health Department: $56,450. The more important uses of this fund are: constructing a covered sidewalk and building a disinfection shed in the Foreign Isolation Hospital, approximately $8,000; demolishing and rebuilding the mat sheds in the Chinese Isolation Hospital, approximately $3,500; flood prevention facilities for the Victoria Nurses' Dormitory and various small project costs, approximately $15,000; converting oil-fired boilers to coal-fired boilers, approximately $12,200; and various small projects and renovations, approximately $17,750.

(E) Works Department: $10,000. This fund includes the cost of organizing and replacing equipment for various minor renovation projects and some toilets.

(F) Finance Department: $2,500. This fund is used to build a new toilet in the Bund branch office of the Tax Division. (To be continued)

Social Services

Replies to Letters: To Chen Ruichang, Tao Xiaoyin, Fan Zhang, Zhou Mingde, Jiang Jianjun: Your letters requesting medical treatment are not published due to space limitations. This column published a general reply on April 19th regarding readers seeking medical treatment, explaining that it is not possible to prescribe medicine based on the descriptions of the illness in the letters. After receiving letters from doctors in various hospitals in the city who generously offered to provide free treatment to patients, these have also been published successively. Please consult the department and seek treatment to avoid delaying treatment time. Reply to Shubao: Regarding the rent dispute, the Municipal Council is currently handling it and you can wait for the regulations to be announced. Reply to Yu Minghuai: One can only survive through奮發努力 (fèn fā nǔ lì, striving and working hard), one should not be pessimistic and world-weary. Reply to Zhang Yumiao: Applications for scholarships should be submitted during the summer vacation according to regulations. Service column opening.

### Tianxiang Reading Club Seeks Members

Mr. Weng Jianqing of Cixi serves in the business community and loves books like life. Over the past ten years, he has accumulated more than 5,000 books. Novels, picture books, and magazines are mostly out of print, making them very precious. Recently, he was urged by friends to share them with like-minded people, so he organized a reading club. It is said that the membership fee is only three yuan per month during the founding period, and membership is quite enthusiastic.

### Hua Yi Trust Opens

Located at 605-606, 6th Floor, Overseas Chinese Building, the "Hua Yi Trust" is jointly founded by financial giants Kang Sixin and Xu Meifu, and has strong financial resources. It specializes in buying and selling factory orders, military tickets, stocks, and public bonds. Small amounts are welcome, and the commission is low. Preparations are now complete and the official opening is scheduled for the 6th of this month.

### Ji Chuanlu and Yang Peizhen Engagement

Ji Chuanlu, the nephew of Ji Shifu of Jin City Bank, and Yang Peizhen, the second daughter of Yang Bogeng of Shanghai Bank, held their engagement ceremony at the Dengtuomo Hotel yesterday afternoon at 4 PM. More than 500 guests attended. Yan Junfu officiated the wedding, and the introducer, Wang Yingsheng, and Yang Bogeng delivered speeches. It is reported that both the bride and groom are highly educated and are involved in social services.

Yesterday's newspaper was broadcast at 6:05 PM

Sports News

### The 2nd Xia Guang Cup Basketball Tournament Opens Today: Men's Exhibition Match: South China vs. Strong Stars; Women's Exhibition Match: Shanghai Girls' High School vs. Bell Sound; Only One League Match: Close Friends Meet Qinglian

Fourteen teams are participating in the 2nd Xia Guang Cup Basketball Tournament, divided into "Xia" and "Guang" groups for competition. The opening was originally scheduled for last week, including one league match and two exhibition matches between strong men's and women's basketball teams. The organizers, in order to show their respect, specially invited Mr. Yuan Ludeng and Mr. Xie Meisheng to perform the opening jump ball, and the Pingjiang Reformation Institute Band came to the venue to play music to add to the atmosphere. The first league match is between Close Friends and Qinglian (Xia Group). The former is the incarnation of Green Duckweed, with strong strength. The latter is composed of middle school students from the Youth Association, and a fierce battle is expected. The two women's exhibition matches are Shanghai Girls' High School vs. Bell Sound. Shanghai Girls' High School, under the guidance of Zhang Jiazhen, has excellent players such as Chai Youxu. Bell Sound is organized by female employees of the telephone company and has also fought on the battlefield for a long time. The final men's exhibition match is South China vs. Strong Stars. The two teams are the champions and runners-up of the Mengxian Cup, each with strong defenses and sharp attacks. A fierce battle is inevitable, with wonderful performances. The list of the fourteen teams participating in the competition, the order of today's opening, and the exhibition lineup are as follows:

Participating Teams:

Strong Heroes, Close Friends, Yiguang, Xiaguang, South China, Ice Team, Strong Team, Datong, Qinglian, Five People, South China, Strong Stars, Eagle Team, Front Guard

Today's Order:

Close Friends vs. Qinglian (Xia Group) 2:30 PM

Shanghai Girls' High School vs. Bell Sound (Women's Exhibition) 3:00 PM

South China vs. Strong Stars (Men's Exhibition) 4:30 PM

### Scheduled to Open This Weekend: 14 Teams Participating

The Zhou Tang Cup Small Football Handicap Tournament is scheduled to open this weekend. The teams participating includes the Kunzhong, Lili Linghua, Hezong, Da'an, Renwen, Guanying, Feiyan, Qingfeng, Xiaokun, Xiaolong A, Xiaowei Xiao, Ruitang, and Xiaolong B teams. It will be held at the Guangxia Middle School field on Moore Road. They are currently assessing the strength of each team to determine the amount of handicap. Teams that have not completed the registration procedures can go to the Ruilong Sports Association, Pu'ai Fang, Shandong Road.

### Sino-French Scout Inspection

The Sino-French School's Scout Troop 1616 will celebrate its 10th anniversary today. The inspection ceremony and curriculum competition will be held at the team's sports venue on Mintini Yin Road at 9:30 AM, with some entertainment activities.

## Page 6

Business News

### Renewed Buying Interest: Yarn Market Rises

The cotton yarn market is trending upwards because spot goods are not loose, which has hardened sentiment. At the same time, rumors have subsided and buying interest has revived. 42-count Blue Phoenix is at $13,500 to $680, 42-count Lima is at $13,200, 80-count Colored Ball is at $38,100, 60-count Sunlight is at $23,600, 32-count Hongxi is at $9,800, 40-count Sunlight is at $12,250, 42-count Water Moon is at $13,100, 20-count Blue Phoenix is at $7,200 to $350, 20-count Double Tiger is at $6,600, 20-count Double Horse is at $6,250 to $400, 20-count Yueqin is at $6,550 to $700, 16-count Red Chief Star is at $6,400, 16-count Golden Bridge is at $6,350, 10-count Red Double Horse is at $4,700 to $850, 10-count Boy Scout is at $4,650 to $750, 6-count Yu Double Whale is at $6,000, 6-count Bumblebee is at $6,330, 8-count Three Tigers is at $4,900. The initial price for 20-count Double Horse factory orders was $5,450, then it went straight up to $5,580, hovering for quite a while, and then rose again to $5,640 at the close. But after the close, it became even more popular, reaching $5,730.

### Piece Goods Also Rise Rapidly

Factory Cloth: Yesterday, the cloth market rose sharply due to the rebound in yarn prices. Also, because the registration of cloth factory orders is no longer required, and the Mobile Certificate Association for retail sales can still be issued, the appetite of buyers suddenly increased, and the rising trend restarted. There is no supply for Yihe coarse cloth spot goods. The morning price of 16-pound Earth was $260, and the after-market price was $265, but it was still difficult to find. Feihong was $250. The price of 12-pound Dapeng fine cloth rose from $236 to $240. The price of Earth rose from $225 to $231. Fugui fine cloth factory orders were $185, spot goods were $225, and bank orders rose sharply to $228, an increase of about $10 per piece for five-week six fine cloth. Shilin's Xiaoji, Meiting, and Taohuamei all shouted as high as about $355 in the afternoon, also rising by $10.

Eastern Cloth: The new single for Longtou fine cloth rose even faster. The after-market once sold off, seeing a new peak of $291. The opening price in the morning was $277, and the noon close was $286.5. The price started at $290 in the afternoon, rose to $291, fell back to $287, and closed at $288, a sharp increase of $10.05 compared to last week. Caiball was $257.5, Flying Fish was $251, Yanghe was $250, Wufu fine slanting was $225, and Baobei was $219. The highest price for Sijunzi biji red orders was $9.6, and the lowest was $9.21. The evening close was $9.48.

### Woolen Fabrics Are Only for Hoarding and Trading

Recently, the price of woolen fabrics has suddenly risen. Winter and summer men's and women's goods of various colors, general Western-style woolen fabrics, raincoat materials, and suit linings have all seen a crazy increase. According to insiders and outsiders, hoarding and trading have always been strong, kicking and throwing, and the market atmosphere is tight. The price of goods is getting higher and higher. However, actual sales are quite sluggish because the peak of the selling price is seen repeatedly, and the purchasing power of users has been reduced. It is also reported that the Woolen Fabric and Wool Textile Products Production and Sales Joint Association held a meeting yesterday, and it is said that they will need to create a register for investigation and registration in the near future.

### The Red-Dark Market: Northern Gang Continues to Enter at Low Prices

Yesterday's cash 烚 赤暗 market still hovered inside and outside the $21,000 mark. Cash shops were very willing to sell, and the Northern Gang continued to enter at low prices. The day presented a trend of first falling and then rebounding, and the sentiment was very stable. The first transaction price in the morning per ingot (10 taels) was $21,050, a decrease of $10. Three or four cash shops came to sell out, stepping down to $350, $20,700 at 9:40 AM. The supply and demand of securities firms were inconsistent. Later, the Northern Gang came to power at low prices and turned to a steady and strong trend. At 11:15 AM, they came out again outside $21,000, and made a high of $21,050. The final transaction price at noon was $21,000, which was $100 less than the price on Saturday, with a high and low of $350. In the afternoon, the buying price fell back to $20,800.

The selling price of gold jewelry per tael in Daxin and other shops was still $2,200 (the purchase price has been closed, deduct $150 to $200 from the selling price). The listed price of patterned silver was $18, and the black market was between $16.24. A silver coin was $9 and $9.5, which was the entry and exit price for operators.

Yesterday, the call rate of the Money Industry Association was also reduced by one point, listed at 10%, and the discount rate for exchange drafts was also reduced to $15 and $20 per 1,000 yuan, a decrease of $5. The difference between the new and old legal tender was 2.2315 cents per yuan.

### Foreign Currency Turns to a Stable Route

Yesterday's foreign currency market, the British and American currencies remained stable as before, the former was still $470, the latter was still $480, the US dollar ticket was $33-34, the Hong Kong ticket was still $5.3, the big ticket was reduced by 10 cents, the military ticket was quite stable, the morning opening was $7.25, then it was high to $30 cents, and finally $7.12, which was 2 cents less than the previous day.

### Public Bonds Fall: Tong Ding Falls the Most

The public bond black market officially opened at 9:30 yesterday. The initial market situation was low and there was no transaction. All bonds fell back a little bit. After a cold ten minutes, the market price suddenly had a good appetite due to the filling of shorts and the opening of Hongxing and Tong Er. The market price followed high. Because it was late to arrive at the market, there were not many sales, and the market was about to close. However, the price had already fallen. At the close, Hongxing sold again. Only more Yi Jian, the price fell in unison. Because all kinds of A bonds rose on Saturday, there was no opening, and they fell alone for $2 on Friday, so yesterday they rose alone by 80 cents, while the others were small. Yesterday, the buyers were San Kai Cheng Kang Tong Yuan Yi Tai Zhong Fu Shunli Ren Chang, and the sellers were still Tong Li and Tong Kang, with a slightly higher number. Hongxing entered first and then exited, mostly exiting. Ren Feng, Wu He, Heng Yu, Yi Chang, and Hu He Ji were all selling. As a result, except for A bonds which rose by 80 cents, the rest fell back by a small amount of $1.2-3 to $2. The total number of transactions was about $1 million. A brief table is listed below.

### Chinese and Foreign Stock Markets Are Fairly Stable

Yesterday, the trading of foreign stocks was not lonely. A total of 23,700 shares were traded. The market price was stable. Ye Guang traded a total of 5,500 shares, the price between $30.025 to $0.075. Shanghai Flannel also traded 5,500 shares, the price retreated from $17.5 to $17, and finally $17.2. Chia Ho Yarn Factory traded 2,800 shares, the price rose from $41.75 to $2.50. 1,500 shares of Xinhua were at $20.025 and $20. 2,000 shares of Zhongfang were at $26.75. 2,000 shares of Yi Beer were at $13.12. 1,000 shares of Aviation were at $13.5 and $13. 1,000 shares of Huizhong were at $2.05.

100 shares of Xiangtai Lumber were at $39, 100 shares of Kaiping were at $60, 100 shares of Silk were at $23, 2,000 shares of Galen Dan were at $1.90, Langezhi was $25.75, and the rest were not traded.

Yesterday, Chinese stocks were firm and stable. New Asia Pharmaceutical (New) has risen to $36 and $26.5. Zhongfa (New) was the highest at $62, and then $61.5. New Asia Science was $17.25, New Asia Materials was $21.5, Wing On Company was $60, Sincere was $75, China Underwear was $25.5, Commercial Press was $210, China was $118, World (New) was $73-4, unique fatigue, Guanshengyuan (New) was $220, Da Zhonghua Matches was $155, Da Sheng One Factory was $70, and Wu He Weaving was $200.

### Rice Prices Increased Once

Yesterday's early and late rice prices were rumored to be tight first and then weak, and finally saw a stable pattern. It was initially because there were few vendors in the four suburbs, and the shouts once increased, but the prices were already expensive, and the diners were standing still, lacking inquiries. Therefore, the French Concession depreciated from $530 to $527-8, and the British Concession decreased from $552, $550 to $547-8. Compared with the previous week, it seems that there is not much difference.

### Sluggish Grain Trade

Arrivals of beans are still scarce. Retail sales in this street are still considered active. However, because the Grain Group is gradually distributing soybeans, public sentiment is quite stable, and the market presents a firm and steady situation. The breakdown is as follows: 100 bags of Tianjin Jinwu soybeans arrived, priced at 210 yuan, and 255 yuan for self-pickup; also, 50 bags of green beans, priced at 155 yuan; 40 bags of Pinghu Du soybeans, large grains at 268 yuan, small grains at 259 yuan; 100 bags of Sangyuan yellow soybeans, priced at 260 yuan; 27 bags of Chongming Sha Huang soybeans, priced at 255 yuan delivered; also, 150 bags of Sha Can soybeans, priced at 151 yuan to 140 yuan; also, 100 bags of Sha Chi soybeans, priced at 240 yuan to 242 yuan for self-pickup, and 255 yuan delivered.

Corn prices trended upward yesterday due to a decrease in arrivals. A total of 560 bags of Wuhu corn, priced at 175.6 yuan delivered, and 172 yuan to 172.5 yuan for self-pickup.

Soybean cake trading was still active yesterday. Mainland buyers still have considerable demand. Holders' attitudes are also quite firm. Prices are generally up by one or two yuan compared to before. The breakdown is as follows: 4,000 pieces of Lizi cake March new warehouse receipts, priced at 69 yuan to 68.5 yuan; 1,500 pieces of Feizi cake April new warehouse receipts, priced at 67 yuan; two carts of Wuxi Rongkang cake, priced at 50.05 yuan to 51 yuan; 1,000 pieces of Shengji soybean cake March new warehouse receipts, priced at 70 yuan to 69.2 yuan; also, 2,000 pieces of April new warehouse receipts, priced at 70 yuan to 70.08 yuan; also, May warehouse receipts at 70.05 yuan; also, 1,000 pieces of May old warehouse receipts, priced at 58.5 yuan; also, 2,500 pieces of June old warehouse receipts, priced at 58.5 yuan to 57 yuan. The supply and demand of wheat bran were balanced yesterday, and prices remained unchanged. The breakdown is as follows: Sanxin small package bran, 200 bags, priced at 112 yuan; also, 500 bags of 20th-day warehouse receipts at 114 yuan.

### Cigarette Hoarders Seeking Sales

The decline in cigarette prices has not abated, mainly due to sluggish customer sales and ample inventory in the market. Bullish hoarders are cutting losses. The asking prices are as follows: Great Britain brand at 9,600 yuan per case, Old Knife brand at 7,700 yuan, Pinhai brand at 5,800 yuan, Wuhua brand at 5,100 yuan, Little Fairy brand at 5,200 yuan, Japanese tobacco Golden Spear brand at 2,080 yuan, Golden Building brand at 2,500 yuan, Red Rose brand at 1,850 yuan, Quanlu brand at 1,650 yuan, and Compass brand at 1,800 yuan, with minimal fluctuations.

### Rayon Lingers as Before

Yesterday, rayon prices still hovered between 9,300 and 9,400 yuan. At the morning opening, 120-denier Tianqiao bright small boxes were at 9,400 yuan, slightly better by 35 yuan, without much difference. It then quickly fell to 9,350 yuan, rebounding three times, and returning to the 450 yuan mark. 120-denier Tianqiao bright large boxes decreased from 9,200 yuan to 140 yuan. 120-denier White Fuji matte showed an upward trend due to short supply and high demand, still opening at 9,400 yuan. 120-denier Beauty bright small boxes rose from 9,100 yuan to 160 yuan.

Chronicles

### Dreams and Reality

— Yuan Ying

Sometimes, if you feel dissatisfied with reality, you can look around and see many possible developments. These possibilities initially seem like vague shadows, mostly made up of imagination. Therefore, if you want to develop your ambitions, you must practice using your imagination well.

A person has dreams of ambition, and even if they cannot be realized as desired, they still have considerable value because these beautiful dreams can allow them to see many opportunities that others have not seen.

The childhoods of great people are full of all sorts of strange and childish, unbelievable dreams. Even if they are far from reality, they often use these dreams to urge themselves to work. When the opportunity truly comes, they seize it in reality just as they seize it in their ideals.

Ambition comes from dissatisfaction. With this starting point, there will be a kind of dream, followed by courageous efforts to quickly bridge the gap between reality and dreams.

Great people are not empty dreamers. Their imaginations are based on concrete facts. It is their goal-oriented dreams that make them dissatisfied with reality, and this dissatisfaction stimulates their hard work and struggle for success in their dreams.

Dreams and reality can ultimately be consistent.

### Starving in Chen

— Yan Qu

The following is a popular folk song in the north, describing the scene of Confucius and his disciples suffering from hunger. We are now trembling all day long, suffering infinite pain for "squeezing rice," and some even lose their lives because of it. The situation of hunger experienced by Confucius and his disciples is comparable to our own, both past and present. After reading this, those who "squeeze rice" may be able to slightly alleviate the pain of "squeezing rice"!

Once, Confucius went to Wei and was in the state of Chen, and his luck was bad and he ran out of food; it was said that he stayed there for seven full days, and there was no vegetable soup or gruel to fill his stomach. It was still okay for Confucius to suffer alone, but it was really difficult for all his disciples to be trapped together. It could be seen that the followers were all sick and unable to get up, and the disciples were so hungry that their brows were furrowed with worry. Yan Hui was so hungry that he had no strength to study hard; Min Zi was so hungry that he waited by his side with a look of panic; Zai Yu was so hungry that he couldn't get up from his daytime nap; Zhong Gong was so hungry that his heart was flustered; Bo Niu was so hungry that his illness was difficult to protect; Zi Gong was so hungry that his eloquent mouth was difficult to open; Ran You was so hungry that it was difficult to hold the bridle as a servant; Zi You's stringed songs didn't sound happy; Zi Xia asked about filial piety with a trembling face; Zi Zhang's appearance was less dignified; Hui Dian's zither sounded out of tune; Zeng Zi was reflecting on himself against the wall; Zi Hua was too hungry to ride a fat horse; Nan Rong was too lazy to repeat the white jade verses. At this time, Fan Chi had not asked about farming; at this time, Kai Ye could not get a position in a noble family; at this time, Gao Chai Yuan Si could not be a minister; at this time, Qin Zhang Mu Pi dared not be arrogant; there was also the gentleman Mi Zi Jian; there was also Gongye Chang, though in shackles; there were also Tan Tai Mie Ming and You Zi; there were also Sima Li Geng and Qin Tong… The disciples and little ones are countless, and then Zi Lu's spirit just charged; unable to suppress his anger, he came forward and asked, "Can a gentleman also be in distress?" Reverently, he said, "Master, allow me to tell you the details. We have never deceived our hearts or harmed others, we have never hurt the heavens or violated the cosmos; Master, you are old and peaceful, kind to friends, and your disciples would like to have light furs and fat horses, how can good intentions not be rewarded? How can we repeatedly suffer from famine?"

Confucius listened and smiled gently,

said, "Ju, I will tell you, to discuss right and wrong;

You must know that a gentleman endures poverty, while a petty person becomes reckless in poverty;

This is knowing your fate, being content with poverty, and accepting your lot.

If it is a petty person who cannot endure poverty,

he will do anything to seek wealth and food.

I spend all day talking about morality with a clear heart,

but you inevitably resent the heavens and blame others with an arrogant attitude."

Just as the master and disciples were talking in detail,

a nine-foot tall strong man arrived;

He was dressed in black robes and wore a tall hat, very imposing,

and his shout sounded like thunder, deafening.

Coming forward, he looked at Zi Lu and was about to attack,

but the brave Zi Lu was not flustered or hurried;

He reached out and drew his seven-star sword, and fought a battle with that nine-foot tall man. The two fought back and forth for a while, unable to tell who was winning or losing, who was stronger. Confucius discerned the meaning of it from the side, and told Zi Lu to grab the chin and forehead as the right approach: the brave Zi Lu guided him and ascended to the final resting place, originally a golden carp emitting light! All because the Master was trapped in Chen, this was a carp sent by heaven to save the "Uncrowned King" Confucius sang and did not stop to seek joy, the brave Zi Lu then cooked the fish for everyone to eat. The master and disciples all left the lands of Chen and Cai, and soon the Master met with Chu Zhao Tu; this is that heaven never blocks all paths, and "the two or three of you" will soon escape disaster tomorrow.

### Money

— Liu Feng

Money is the "Supreme Ancestor" far above the heavens. For example, when it's cold, you can still be carefree wearing heavy furs; but without money, even the biggest things can only be shelved, and you can only sit at home and sprout beans.

Money is indeed the root of all evil, but it is also omnipotent. As much as it is detestable, you can't do without it. So as much as you hate it, you can't help but love it. That is another piece of evidence that money is above heaven.

For money, people flatter and boast; for money, they drill through every crack; for money, some people even call other people's farts fragrant...

But there are also people who become so poor that they complain and swear that they don't want money anymore; but if you stuffed banknotes into their hands, they probably wouldn't have time to take them with both hands.

### Counterproductive

— Zhang Zuochen

In the past, the more goods you bought, the cheaper and easier they were to buy,

Now, the more goods you buy, the more expensive and impossible they are to buy.

In the past, people cherished currency and despised goods, and there was only a price-cutting sales tactic,

Now, people despise currency and cherish hoarding, and there is a chorus of high-price purchases.

### Sharing the Same Boat in Storms

— He Jia Zhi

(Four) In the Lingering Sunset

Another day, Guofang was leaving. Weicheng hired a car for her, but Cuizhen saw her off. She rode in the car with Guofang, and then walked back alone. Not long after Cuizhen returned, Fei Changhe came to visit Weicheng. A Xing knew that Weicheng had arranged for Fei Changhe to come, so he didn't stop him, and led him to the Shuangmei Study, saying, "Young master, Fei Changhe has arrived." Fei Changhe still wore that copper-basin-like felt hat on his head, nodded to Weicheng, and smiled, "Young Master Ye, I am here to talk about fate. I heard people say that Young Master Ye's family has recently had the funeral of the first wife, and there is less money on hand. I think, Young Master Ye, you should give me a passbook, and take small sums of money, it will be better than taking a very large sum at once."

Weicheng said in astonishment, "I have never owed you money, and you have never had a deposit with me, why do you want to make a passbook, what does this mean?" Fei Changhe was about to speak when suddenly Cuizhen walked over and called out, "Uncle!" Fei Changhe quickly said, "Don't mention it, don't mention it, you go outside for a while, I have something to say to Young Master Ye." Cuizhen and A Xing both turned and went outside. Fei Changhe piled on a face full of smiles and said: "Young Master Ye, don't you understand what I mean? Cuizhen has arrived at your home, from now on, she is no longer in my home, she is in your home: not to mention people, but to talk about an ox plowing the field, the owner of this ox was previously me, now it's you, not to mention the ox, but to talk about banknotes, I like to gamble, previously the banknotes were in my pocket, now they're in your pocket. Heh heh!" Weicheng was a little angry and a little hateful, and said, "The more you say, the less I understand, what exactly do you mean, people, oxen, and banknotes?"

(Sixty-Seven)

## Page 7

## Page 8

