### Allied Forces in Dutch East Indies Hinder Japanese Advance: Fierce Fighting in West Java

Change of Command in Dutch Military

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - Japanese sources state that the Japanese army is fiercely attacking and has reached a certain location near Batavia, the capital of the Dutch East Indies. However, details have not been disclosed.

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - A special dispatch from the Java front in the "Nichinichi Shimbun" reports that a large number of Japanese aircraft yesterday heavily attacked Bandung airfield, causing significant damage to military facilities there. It also states that Japanese troops, after repelling strong enemy resistance, are now approaching Batavia.

Bandung, 5th (Reuters) - The third air raid alert was issued here yesterday afternoon. Although the sound of anti-aircraft guns was heard and several fighter planes were seen taking off, no bombs fell.

Bandung, 5th (Reuters) - Government offices here announced this afternoon that despite the valiant resistance of the Allied forces, Japanese troops are continuing to advance in Java and have occupied several more locations. Japanese operations have greatly benefited from air superiority. It is reported that more Japanese troops have landed in western Java, where fighting is intense and Dutch forces are engaged in a difficult battle, but are outnumbered. Meanwhile, Japanese troops have occupied the ×××× airfield not far from Bandung. The Dutch side has also acknowledged the loss of Klari, Purwakarta, and Wetan in western Java, as well as Solo and Tanjung Priok in eastern Java. Officials in Bandung, while acknowledging the serious situation on the island of Java, believe it is not yet hopeless. Seven air raid alerts were issued here today, and the extent of the damage is unknown.

London, 4th (Havas) - The Netherlands Government Information Service has just issued a communiqué stating that after General Wavell, Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Forces in the Southwest Pacific, was recalled to India, the Dutch government has ordered the Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies to appoint Lieutenant General Ter Poorten as Commander-in-Chief of the Army, placing frontline combat forces under his command. Rear Admiral Helfrich has been appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Navy. The Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies will continue to manage civil affairs as usual. In addition, Admiral Helfrich has been appointed as a special envoy to maintain contact with the Allied forces authorities in Bandung.

London, 4th (Reuters) - According to unconfirmed reports, the Japanese fleet has approached the coast of Java twice. If this news is accurate, it indicates that the Japanese are attempting to take advantage of the current opportunity to reinforce their landing forces. Dutch sources here explain Java's defensive tactics as follows: Allied naval and air forces should destroy Japanese escort fleets at sea to prevent further Japanese landings on the island. However, this is quite difficult due to the large number of Japanese naval and air forces and the heavier losses suffered by the Allied naval and air forces. Although Japanese ground forces are numerous, Dutch forces should immediately counterattack to prevent the Japanese from penetrating deeper. Dutch forces should prevent the Japanese from concentrating and encircling Banten, Indramayu, or Cirebon. The relocation of the capital of the Dutch East Indies from Batavia to Bandung has the following implications: First, rear guard units are preparing to retreat to the mountainous areas, where the terrain is rugged and there are large stockpiles of ammunition that can be used for long-term defense. Second, implement a scorched earth policy to prevent the Japanese from using port facilities. Dutch sources also believe that if the Japanese succeed in their operations on the north coast of Java, the next step will be to attempt landings at one or more ports on the southern coast of Java, especially Cilacap. From there, the Japanese can cut off the railway and highway between Bandung, Surabaya, and major cities in central Java.

Major Naval Battle Near Java: Two British and American Ships Lost

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - The Imperial Headquarters announced at 4:00 PM today that the Japanese fleet, operating in the Indian Ocean south of Java, sank the British destroyer HMS "Stronghold" (905 tons) on the 2nd of this month, and the American gunboat USS "Asheville" (1,270 tons) near the south coast of Java on the 3rd of this month.

### Aircraft Discovered off East Coast, Air Raid Alert in Tokyo: Investigation Reveals Japanese Aircraft, Marcus Island Attacked

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - An air raid alert was issued here today, the first since the start of the Pacific War. According to the Metropolitan Police Department, residents remained calm after the alert was issued and showed no signs of panic. Families turned off gas pipes and sent children and the sick to bomb shelters, assisting nearby air defense and fire brigades. Although it was during the morning rush hour, trains and buses continued to operate as usual.

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - The Japanese Imperial Headquarters announced today that several unidentified aircraft appeared in the skies over the territorial waters east of Japan's mainland this morning. Air raid alerts were immediately issued in the Tokyo metropolitan area and along the coast. It was later determined that these aircraft were Japanese. Approximately 30 enemy aircraft attacked Marcus Island (Marcus Is), located between the Japanese-held Ogasawara Islands and Wake Island, for an hour yesterday. Seven enemy aircraft were shot down. One building on the island was hit and caught fire, resulting in eight deaths and injuries.

### Loud Explosion in Honolulu: Caused by Aircraft Dropping Bombs

Honolulu, 5th (Havas) - Military authorities announced today that three explosions occurred here at 2:10 AM yesterday. It has now been determined that they were caused by enemy aircraft flying over Oahu and dropping bombs on the outskirts of the city from high altitude.

### Philippines War Report: Japan Claims Capture of Zamboanga

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - The Japanese Imperial Headquarters announced at 4:35 PM today that the Japanese fleet, operating in the Philippines, captured Zamboanga, the westernmost point of Mindanao Island, on the 2nd of this month.

Washington, 4th (Special Dispatch) - The United States Department of War has received a message from Philippine President Quezon, issued from a temporary capital somewhere, addressed to the people of the Philippines.

### Darwin Harbor Continues to be Attacked

Canberra, 5th (Reuters) - The British Air Force Command announced that Darwin Harbor was again strafed by Japanese fighter planes with machine guns yesterday afternoon, suffering considerable damage. British aircraft also attacked Kasamaate.

### Netherlands and Australia Decide to Exchange Envoys

London, 5th (Reuters) - Official sources report that the Dutch and Australian governments have decided to exchange envoys. The Dutch Minister to Iran, M.P. Fuchs, has been appointed as the Dutch Minister to Australia, and the Australian High Commissioner to London, Mr. Bruce, has been appointed as the Australian Minister to the Netherlands.

### Vichy Denies French-Japanese Negotiations

Firm Resolve to Defend Territorial Sovereignty

Vichy, 4th (Havas) - Foreign newspapers and radio stations have recently been widely reporting that France and Japan are conducting negotiations to discuss the issue of the French-owned island of Madagascar in Africa. This claim has just been denied by responsible officials here, who say the story is pure fabrication. The island is currently the only route for Britain to India and is therefore of concern to Britain. It is suspected this rumor started because of this. It should be noted that the French government has repeatedly and solemnly declared that it has an unwavering determination to defend any part of the empire against all aggressors.

Vichy, 4th (Havas) - Regarding the issue of French New Caledonia in the Pacific, officials here have just issued a communiqué stating that according to news from Washington, the United States government has reportedly decided to negotiate only with the rebel regime in the area (i.e., the de Gaulle faction) regarding the island. Responsible French authorities were extremely surprised to hear this, because the U.S. government maintains normal diplomatic relations with France and therefore must fully recognize French sovereignty over its national territory and overseas possessions. Therefore, the French ambassador to the United States has taken all necessary steps regarding this matter.

### U.S. and Japan Reach Agreement in Principle on Exchange of Diplomatic Representatives

Tokyo, 5th (Domei News Agency) - The Ministry of Foreign Affairs verbally disclosed this afternoon that Japan and the United States have reached an agreement in principle on the exchange of diplomatic representatives, consular officials, and others. However, details are still under negotiation. Negotiations between Japan and Britain on the exchange of diplomatic representatives have not made progress due to Britain's unclear attitude. It is reported that negotiations between Japan and the U.S. and Britain are being conducted through Spain and Switzerland. The exchange will include not only diplomatic representatives but also expatriates, including Japanese diplomatic representatives, consular officials, and other Japanese nationals from countries in Central and South America that have severed relations with Japan. It is expected that when the negotiations are completed, the exchange will take place in Lourenço Marques in Portuguese East Africa (Mozambique).

Buenos Aires, 5th (Domei News Agency) - According to sources here, as a result of negotiations between the Axis powers and Brazil, a total of 802 Axis diplomatic representatives and their families will soon leave the capital of Brazil on two Brazilian ships, bound for Lisbon and Lourenço Marques in Portuguese East Africa. This includes 164 Japanese, 355 Germans, and 283 Italians.

### Roosevelt's Ninth Anniversary of Inauguration

Washington, 5th (Reuters) - Yesterday was the ninth anniversary of President Roosevelt's inauguration. He attended church with his entire cabinet in the morning to commemorate the occasion. The President has reached the age of 60 and today begins his tenth year in office. Despite the constant military dispatches and the complexity of political affairs, he shows no signs of fatigue. According to the President's physician, Dr. McIntire, the secret to the President's health is his ability to maintain a natural calmness even under extremely disturbing circumstances. Although vacation trips have been canceled since the start of the war, it does not seem to affect him.

### U.S. Ambassador to Britain Returns Home for Consultations: Portuguese Prime Minister Receives British Ambassador

Lisbon, 5th (Haitong News Agency) - U.S. Ambassador to Britain, Winant, has left here by Clipper aircraft for New York after staying here for a week. It was previously said that Winant's return home was for official business, but his stay here for such a long time is puzzling. However, U.S. officials are remaining tight-lipped.

Lisbon, 4th (Havas) - British Ambassador to Portugal, Sir Campbell, met with Prime Minister Salazar today to discuss matters.

### Former Greek Foreign Minister Passes Away in France

Vichy, 5th (Haitong News Agency) - Former Greek Foreign Minister Politis has passed away in Cannes, France, at the age of 70.

### British Cabinet Undertakes Final Review of Indian Situation: U.S. Delegation to Depart for India Soon, Statement on Aid to India to be Issued

London, 5th (Reuters) - A strong committee within the British cabinet, chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Attlee and including Cripps, has completed a new study of the Indian situation. The results of the study have now been submitted to the entire cabinet for final consideration in order to deal with the political situation in India. Although the date for the British government's statement on the Indian situation has not been decided, it will not be delayed for long. The cabinet's submission of this issue to a committee composed of key government officials first is a customary procedure for handling such important matters. The cabinet often submits such issues to government officials with special knowledge of the matter for preliminary study.

London, 4th (Reuters) - Several Labour MPs today put forward a motion on the Indian situation, the text of which is as follows: "In the opinion of this House, the Government should clearly declare its recognition of India's national independence and be prepared to negotiate with the leaders of the Indian national movement to discuss ways and timings for the transfer of sovereignty to an interim Indian government." Those who support this motion include Davies, Shinwell, Wilson, etc., all Labour MPs.

Washington, 4th (Special Dispatch) - U.S. Under Secretary of State Welles stated that the State Department will issue an important statement regarding U.S. aid to India.

New York, 5th (Reuters) - The New York Times today published a dispatch from Washington stating that the U.S. government has appointed Deputy Under Secretary of State Grady as head of the delegation to India and will depart for New Delhi soon.

### Chairman Chiang Returns to Chongqing from Kunming: Chairman Lin Personally Welcomes Him

Chongqing, 5th (Special Dispatch) - Chairman Chiang and his wife, accompanied by Secretary-General Wang Chonghui, Director Shang Zhen, Committee Member Zhang Daofan, Director Zhou Zhirou, and others, visited India and Burma in early February and returned to Chongqing by special plane from Kunming at 12:15 PM on the 5th. Chairman Lin and President Yu Youren of the Executive Yuan, Secretary-General Wu Tiecheng, Minister Zhu Jiahao, Chief of Staff He Yingqin, Director He Yaozu, Secretary-General Chen Yi, Committee Member Chen Bulei, Deputy Secretary-General Gan Naiguang, Commander-in-Chief Liu Zhi, and others were all present at the airport to welcome them. After disembarking from the plane, Chairman Chiang expressed his gratitude to those who welcomed him and thanked Chairman Lin for personally welcoming him. He then returned to his private residence to rest. At 5:00 PM, Chairman Chiang took a car to inspect the city streets and walked for a long time in the southern district. When the citizens saw that Chairman Chiang had returned from his travels and was in good spirits, better than before, they all stood respectfully on the roadside, beaming with joy.

### Britain Plans to Issue Bonds Worth £1 Billion: Government Submits Proposal to Parliament

London, 4th (Reuters) - The government today submitted to Parliament a bill to issue bonds worth £1 billion. This is the first of the bond bills to be submitted in the next fiscal year. Chancellor of the Exchequer Kingsley Wood will deliver a speech in the House of Commons shortly, reporting on Britain's wartime finances. The government also submitted a supplementary bond bill for £250 million to cover increased expenditures in the current fiscal year (ending April 31st).

### Perpetrators of Attempted Assassination of Von Papen Under Interrogation

Ankara, 5th (Havas) - Regarding the attempted assassination of German Ambassador to Turkey, Von Papen, although the authorities have not yet issued an official announcement, it is known that the perpetrator who died on the spot was from the Balkans, formerly part of Yugoslavia. The Turkish authorities have arrested several people and are interrogating them to find out the inside story. It is known that they were instigated by a certain country. The Turkish government is determined to disclose the facts of the case, regardless of foreign repercussions.

### Prominent Spanish General Killed in Action on Eastern Front

Madrid, 4th (Havas) - The authorities announced that Lieutenant Ignacio Sánchez, son of prominent Spanish General Sánchez, was killed in action on the Eastern Front.

### Relief Efforts Underway After Bombing of Paris Suburbs: 600 Dead, 1,000 Injured, British Aircraft Return to France for Reconnaissance

Vichy, 4th (Havas) - Regarding the bombing of Paris by British aircraft on the 3rd of this month, the authorities here have released a description of the situation, stating briefly that after the bombing of Paris, the municipal authorities immediately dispatched rescue teams to assist injured civilians. However, because the injured were everywhere, they were overwhelmed, resulting in many people dying from their injuries before they could be rescued. Those with minor injuries were sent to hospitals for surgery. Women, children, and the elderly filled the operating rooms, a tragic sight. The Boulogne City Hall displayed no fewer than 100 bodies, most of whom were women and children. Several six-story buildings were also destroyed. Vice-President of the Council Darlan personally visited the bombed areas to inspect the rescue teams, but due to their hasty organization, they had difficulty achieving good results. By noon, there were several thousand homeless people, for whom the authorities set up shelters. At the same time, various public utilities dispatched workers to actively repair the damaged infrastructure. In addition, British aircraft dropped various leaflets, one of which stated, "They should come to Paris often."

Paris, 4th (Havas) - An air raid alert was issued again here this morning, but it was a British reconnaissance plane sent to observe the extent of the damage to this undefended city and did not drop any bombs.

London, 4th (Havas) - According to well-informed sources here, the British Air Force will continue to bomb industrial centers in the occupied areas of northern France.

Main Goal of British Action

Washington, 5th (Havas) - According to some in political circles here, the main goal of the British bombing of Paris is to create an international situation that alienates the governments of France and the United States. This is supported by the fact that the British news agency stated that this action was a British decision and was not consulted with the U.S. government. Others say that this action is to cater to Soviet demands, as Soviet Ambassador to the United States Litvinov has repeatedly requested that Germany be contained on the Western Front to facilitate the Soviet offensive against Germany.

Washington Believes It is Legal

Washington, 4th (Special Dispatch) - U.S. Under Secretary of State Welles told reporters today that the British bombing of French-occupied areas that manufacture armaments is a completely legitimate act of war and will not affect the U.S. policy towards France that was announced last week.

Estimated Losses in Bombed Areas

Paris, 4th (Havas) - After the British air raid on the outskirts of Paris last night, rescue teams worked hard to clear the bombed areas this morning. According to the latest reports, 600 people were killed and 1,000 injured, but in some areas, these statistics are not yet final. For example, in the basements of the Boulogne and Billancourt districts, 150 refugees were cut off by collapsed buildings, and their fate is unknown. The casualties and losses in the bombed areas are as follows: Clamart: 2 dead, 5 injured, 12 houses destroyed. Boulogne: 400 dead, approximately 1,000 injured, 150-200 houses burned. Issy-les-Moulineaux: 17 dead, number of injured unknown, 20 houses destroyed. Villejuif: 4 dead, 8 injured, 15 houses destroyed. Châtillon: 1 dead. Neuilly: 3 slightly injured. Levallois-Perret: 15 dead, 20 injured. Sèvres: 3 dead, several injured. Rueil-Malmaison: Number of dead and injured not yet confirmed. As of this morning, all homeless refugees have been provided with shelter. The number of refugees is in the thousands. Water, gas, and electricity have all been cut off.

### Precious Copies of Complete Library of the Four Treasuries Donated to British Libraries

Foreign Academic Organizations Send Books to China

Chongqing, 4th - The Central Library feels a great lack of spiritual sustenance in the rear. Book prices have soared, and due to foreign exchange restrictions, it is unable to purchase books in large quantities. It has written to foreign academic organizations to solicit books and magazines, and has successively received dozens of authoritative complete sets of magazines with academic value. British organizations have many items waiting to be shipped to China. After the outbreak of the European War, the library wrote to the propaganda departments of various countries to make contact. Among them, the British Propaganda Bureau in Hong Kong and the British Embassy Press Office in Chongqing sent many publications and photographs. To thank the Allied nation of Britain, the library will donate four copies of the first edition of the precious Complete Library of the Four Treasuries to British libraries in British territories such as Canada, India, and Burma. Minister Wang of the Central Propaganda Department contacted the British Embassy Press Office in China on behalf of the Central Library to arrange the donation. The British Embassy Press Office agreed to donate more than 1,000 recent British magazines to the library. It is said that the British are also willing to donate 50 books each to other colleges and universities above the specialized level.

### Chongqing Boy Scouts Celebrate Boy Scout Day

Grand Review, Performance, and Campfire Held

Chongqing, 5th - Today marks the 30th anniversary of the founding of the Chinese Boy Scouts and the 15th Boy Scout Day. 1,915 Boy Scouts from 35 troops in the Chongqing area held a grand review at 9:00 AM. Vice President Dai Jitao, He Yingqin, Chairman of the Board Chen Lifu, founder of the Boy Scouts Yan Jialin, and party and government officials and guests such as Wu Tiecheng, Zhang Zhizhong, and Bai Chongxi attended. At 9:00 AM sharp, music was played and the flag was raised. Chen Lifu led the ceremony as usual. Vice President He read Chairman Chiang's address. Then, representatives of Boy Scouts from 40 provinces and cities across the country presented flags, flowers, and letters of respect to the chairman and vice presidents. After the presentation, the entire group sang (Wishing the Chairman Health) and cheered for the glory of China. Next, the review began. The reviewed Boy Scouts were in high spirits. After the march in review formation, they formed the party emblem and performed calisthenics with agile and orderly movements. After reviewing the drill, Vice President Dai delivered an address. After the address, everyone applauded. Chairman of the Board Chen immediately led everyone in reciting the oath. After the ceremony, academic performances were held in the afternoon at the Chuandong Normal School, and a campfire was held in the evening.

Guiyang Boy Scouts Celebrate Enthusiastically

Guiyang, 5th - Guiyang enthusiastically celebrated Boy Scout Day today. More than 2,000 Boy Scouts from the city attended. Provincial Party Department Chairman Huang Yuren presided over the event. Chairman Wu Dingchang and Director of Education Ou Yuanhuai also attended and spoke, mostly encouraging words. Afterwards, the conference passed a special telegram to pay respects to President Chiang and Chairman Lin. In the afternoon, various theaters hosted Boy Scout shows.

### Eulogy for Han Guojun

Officially Commended Yesterday

Chongqing, 5th - Order of the 5th: Han Guojun was upright and pure in character, loyal and devoted. Since the founding of the Republic of China, he has been a respected elder statesman, whether in office or in retirement. After the outbreak of the war, as the Director of the Subei Yellow River Flood Relief Committee, he provided relief to the victims of the disaster, making great contributions to his hometown. In recent years, he has lived in seclusion in his hometown, strong and unyielding, with a strong sense of righteousness. We are deeply saddened to hear of his death. He should be officially commended to comfort his loyal spirit and serve as an example. This order.

### British Ambassador to Present Credentials Tomorrow

Chongqing, 5th - The new British Ambassador, Sir Horace James Seymour, is scheduled to meet with Chairman Lin at 11:00 AM on the 7th to present his credentials.

### National Memorial Days Officially Announced Yesterday

Chongqing, 5th - Order of the 5th: The schedule of National Memorial Days is hereby announced. This order. Schedule of National Memorial Days: January 1, Founding of the Republic of China Anniversary; March 29, Revolutionary Martyrs' Memorial Day; August 27, Confucius' Birthday; October 10, National Day; November 12, Dr. Sun Yat-sen's Birthday

### Germany Expresses Concern About Future Situation in Northern Europe: Believes Britain May Launch Offensive, Norway to Become Important Battlefield

Bern, 4th (Havas) - The Stockholm Gazette recently carried a dispatch from a correspondent in Berlin stating that German officials believe that Britain and the United States may launch military operations in northern Norway. This will have a serious impact on Germany's policy towards Norway. German military authorities will take precautions and prepare for all military crises and take the necessary measures to ensure that any plans that threaten the German left flank will fail. From this, it can be seen that Norway may be an important battlefield in the current war. The measures that Germany has already taken will be intensified if necessary in the future. Norwegians who are unaware of the situation and pose a threat in the current environment will be strictly monitored.

### Two Villages on Right Bank of Danube Sink

Belgrade, 5th (Haitong News Agency) - On the right bank of the Danube, 5 kilometers from Belgrade, the villages of Vinci and Ritčig suddenly sank, covering an area of 3-4 kilometers. The area is tilting and moving towards the Danube. Fortunately, the local residents escaped to safety in time, and there were no deaths or injuries, but more than 50 houses completely collapsed. The government has now sent officials to inspect the disaster and provide relief to the homeless.

### Suez Canal Zone Attacked Again

Istanbul, 5th (Haitong News Agency) - News from Cairo last night: Axis aircraft attacked the Suez Canal, Alexandria, and the Nile Delta again this morning. Air raid alerts were issued in all areas. British sources say that there was only minor damage in the Alexandria area.

### The Lisu People of Nu Mountain (Part 1)

One

Yunnan is a land of mountains, but within these mountains are concealed many small plains, what geographers call "intermontane basins," and what the locals call "ba zi." The entire province has one hundred and nine counties, and each county seat is located in a larger ba zi. Thus, Yunnan has roughly one hundred and nine large ba zi. There are many mountains, making travel difficult. Although transportation is better than before, most counties still rely on horses and sedan chairs. When you climb over mountain passes and trek for a day, and suddenly a plain appears, with green fields, neat farmhouses, rows of willows, and small rivers flowing through it, you will feel an indescribable comfort. You quickly urge your horse and rush down the mountain in one breath. At this time, looking back at the surrounding mountains, they are already dyed red and purple by the evening glow. By the time you reach the center of the street, it is already dusk, and you hurry to find an inn.

In the middle room of the inn, you will see a red paper with golden characters for "Heaven, Earth, Nation, Parents, Teacher." Under the flickering light of the vegetable oil lamp, these golden characters appear particularly bright. This memorial tablet symbolizes Han culture, and this ba zi is a Han Chinese community. Here, you will feel a sense of familiarity, which every friend who "travels to barbarian lands" feels.

I traveled in the border areas of Yunnan for a year and a half. What I want to describe in this short article are the Lisu people on Nu Mountain, between the Nujiang and Lancang Rivers in northwestern Yunnan. They number over 120,000 and are widely distributed, but the un-Sinicized parts live in several counties such as Weixi, Fugong, and Bijiang. Their language belongs to the Tibeto-Burman family and is closely related to Lolo. From Kunming, it takes three days by car to Xiaguan, then change to horses and five days to Lijiang, and another six days to reach Weixi. Weixi was a "ting" in the Qing Dynasty, now changed to a county, a poor third-class county. It is also the last stop of Han culture. From here to the northwest, you enter the realm of Tibetan culture. In Yanwa Town, which belongs to Weixi, there is a ferry crossing the river. The opposite bank is Nu Mountain, the main base of the Lisu people. The ferry is also called a rope bridge, a means of transportation over water in western Sichuan and Yunnan and Kangzang provinces. It looks very scary, but it is extremely convenient, as I will explain in detail later.

Two

The ba zi in the Weixi and Fugong areas, like other ba zi in central Yunnan, are occupied by Han Chinese and Sinicized natives. The real natives live on the surrounding mountains. Some say that the ba zi were originally uninhabited. The natives did not eat rice and did not know artificial irrigation, so the ba zi had no economic value to them. They eat corn, sorghum, and buckwheat. Their technique is "slash and burn." At night, you will see patches of fire on the surrounding mountains. This is not a wildfire, but the Lisu deliberately burning the bushes and weeds on the mountains to prepare to sow seeds there. The ashes are a kind of semi-artificial fertilizer. They have no plows, no harrows, and therefore no plowing oxen. Before sowing seeds, they use their unique square-headed knives or burned and hardened tree forks to turn the soil. This is the so-called "slash and burn." Among the six domestic animals, the Lisu only have chickens, pigs, and dogs, but no horses, cattle, or sheep. Only those who have become Tibetanized raise large flocks of sheep. Those who have become Sinicized raise a few cattle.

Three

The mountains abound with wild game, such as elk, wild boar, lynx, wolves, tigers, and leopards. Pigs and chickens are managed by women, too small to be worth eating. Lisu men are good hunters and have endless interest in hunting. When hunting, they go out in groups with dried rations. They are accustomed to hunting by encirclement, without hunting dogs. They themselves have sharp eyes and can identify the footprints of animals. They follow the tracks. After finding them, they chase, shouting as they chase. When they reach a suitable place, everyone disperses and blockades the access roads to this place. They gradually narrow the circle, forcing inward, shouting loudly, holding weapons in their hands—crossbows, knives, and spears—ready to shoot, chop, and stab at any time they see it. At this time, the wild animal is truly panicked and has no way out. If it is not quick enough to dodge, its life will be ended. Because it is a forced encirclement, they cannot predict any direction or how far they will chase. Often they chase for three or four days, naturally in uninhabited mountains and wilderness, so they must bring dried rations. At night, they sleep under the mountain rocks with their clothes on. To prevent wild animals from escaping far away, someone takes turns watching. The wild animal, having been chased for a day, is too weak to run far at night and mostly hides in a hard-to-find place, not moving. Otherwise, it will be sensed by the watchman and lose its life.

After killing the wild animal, everyone carries it home. Whoever hits it first gets the head of the animal. The rest get the limbs and internal organs. However, the chief of a tribe always gets a front leg, even though he did not participate in the hunt.

Four

The Lisu are fond of alcohol. When they have wild game to accompany the wine, they drink all night. When Han Chinese slaughter pigs and sheep, they always start by opening the belly, but the Lisu put the whole wild animal on the fire to burn, first burning off the fur—except for particularly beautiful furs like tigers and leopards. Then they cut off the head and dismember it. They leave the intestines and stomach natural without washing. They cut it into sections and pieces, either grilling it on firewood or cooking it in several large pots, but without salt. Because salt is a precious commodity in the native areas. They only lick salt blocks with their tongues when eating meat, with several people taking turns licking one block of salt. But they can make their own wine and drink it as much as they want.

### The Bright Kunming Lake

## Page 3

### Current Status of Transportation in This City After Automobile Reduction: Opening of Horse-Drawn Carriage Company Not Yet a Reality; Tram Passengers Crowded, Adjustments Needed

In the past, villagers coming to Shanghai regarded the roads as dangerous, because cars sped by, one after another. If they were not careful, they could lose their lives. Recently, it is common to see groups carrying burdens on their shoulders walking in the center of the roads, with a calm and nonchalant attitude. This is a microcosm of the drastic changes in this city's situation. Recently, we learned from relevant sources about the general transportation situation in this city and its possible developments, which are recorded as follows:

Public Buses

Following the suspension of service by the four major automobile companies, Xiang Sheng, Yun Fei, Yin Se, and Tailai, the British-owned public buses also completely ceased operations on January 11. The once-glorious double-decker public buses are no longer seen by the people of Shanghai. Most of the public bus employees were also laid off after the suspension of service. It is evident that the restoration of this public transportation vehicle is impossible for the time being. Subsequently, the number of motorcycles on the roads has also decreased dramatically, forming an unprecedented lull in the city's transportation.

Trams

Tram operations have also been affected by the electricity conservation plan, resulting in a reduction in the number of trams and shortened hours. The trams currently running in the International Settlement include lines 1, 2, 3, 5, 9, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, and 24. The earliest departure time is 6:05 AM. The Hongkou tram line, which had been suspended for four and a half years, has recently resumed service in part. The line from the Broadway Mansions, via North Suzhou Road, North Sichuan Road, Bazilu, to the original terminal of the Municipal Council's Western Children's Public School, and the line along Broadway Road to the Yangshupu Power Company, have both been restored. However, tram tickets are generally calculated using Japanese military currency.

Private Automobiles

Private automobiles account for the largest number of motorcycles in this city, active on the market and most envied by the carless class. Since the supply of gasoline became a problem, they have all been suspended. Only private automobiles that have been specially approved by the Municipal Council to issue new licenses are allowed to operate. Previously, the registered number of automobiles was over 10,000, but now it has decreased to less than 1,000. Only over two hundred doctors have been specially approved due to the needs of their business. This is due to the strict restrictions imposed by the authorities. It is extremely rare for other financial, industrial, and commercial sectors to be allowed to operate, because the authorities believe that their use of automobiles consumes gasoline and is not necessary.

Alternative Fuels

After gasoline disappeared from the market, there were sales of gasoline substitutes in the French Concession, priced at 22 yuan in national currency per gallon. These were only sold to those who had obtained special licenses to operate automobiles. This substitute is a mixture of petroleum, benzene, and alcohol, and its firepower is about 15 to 20 percent less than gasoline. There was a widespread rumor that charcoal-fueled automobiles would be common on the market, but this has not yet been widely implemented. In early January, the French Concession Police Department issued four charcoal-fueled automobile operating permits. Recently, a funeral home advertised the use of steam-powered automobiles to transport corpses, which is a novel approach.

Bicycles

Bicycles are currently the most popular means of transportation in this city. The number of registrations has increased dramatically, and bicycle transactions are frequent. The sight of bicycles on the streets is a constant flow. These foot-powered vehicles were previously only used for tasks such as delivering messages, but now they are favored by the general middle and upper classes. Some automobile owners have even lowered their standards to ride them. Some company managers have purchased multiple bicycles to provide for their employees in case the trams stop running. Bicycle parking is a common problem. The French Concession has established special bicycle stations. Since January 20, contractors have been running them, charging 30 cents per hour for parking, or 20 cents for less than one hour, with a maximum parking time of six hours. There is a widespread rumor that the International Settlement, French Concession, and Chinese areas will issue joint bicycle licenses. It is reported that the relevant authorities have generally agreed on this, and only some minor issues are still under discussion.

Horse-Drawn Carriages

There were plans to open a horse-drawn carriage company, but these failed due to a lack of horse supply. Currently, only some cotton mills have these new vehicles. The horse-drawn carriages of the Sisters of Poor are commonly seen by the people of Shanghai. Chartering carriages is still a means of transportation for the middle and upper classes, but after the sharp rise in prices, the food expenses of the carriage drivers have exceeded their wages by a factor of one, which makes it difficult for the owners to maintain them. The rental price of rickshaws is 3.20 yuan per 24 hours in the International Settlement, and 1.60 yuan in the French Concession and Chinese areas. According to the rickshaw pullers, they earn an average net income of about ten to twenty yuan per day, but with so many mouths to feed, it is difficult to maintain a basic living.

Vehicle Taxes

The Municipal Council's tax rates for various vehicles are 150 yuan per half-year for privately owned chartered cars, 11 yuan per month for rickshaws, 40.50 yuan per quarter for privately owned horse-drawn carriages, 54 yuan for business horse-drawn carriages, 48 yuan per year for bicycles, and 12.50 yuan per quarter for handcarts, which is about three to four times higher than before the war. According to reliable sources, the Municipal Council's tax revenue from all types of vehicles, including automobiles, is 4.3 million yuan per year. Now, with most motorized vehicles out of service, this revenue has decreased to about one million yuan, a significant difference. Furthermore, the number of vehicle accidents in this city, which used to be several per day before the war, has recently decreased due to the reduction in motorcycles, which is an inevitable phenomenon.

Passenger Congestion

The trams in the two settlements and the public buses in the French Concession are overcrowded. Although the company authorities have paid attention to this, such as opening up stop platforms, assigning personnel to take care of passengers getting on and off the trams, and strictly checking tickets, there are still some issues that are inconvenient for passengers. Now that the harsh winter has passed, and the weather is about to become hot, countless passengers are crammed into small carriages, which is not hygienic. Ways to remedy this situation should be sought.

### Municipal Council's Budget for This Year Reduced by More Than 20 Million Yuan

Final Decision Expected Late This Month

The Municipal Council's budget for this year will be tightened to offset the sharp decline in revenue, as reported in previous newspapers. According to inquiries, the Municipal Council's budget for this year is currently being prepared separately by the various departments and sections under the Council. Most of it has been prepared and submitted to the Council's Finance Department, and the few that have not been prepared are also being rushed to completion, with a deadline for all to be submitted to the Finance Department by the upper ten days of this month. In the middle of this month, the Finance Committee will meet to discuss the prepared budget, determine the budget amounts for each item, and finally, in the late part of this month, submit a report for review and make a final decision. It must be resolved and passed before it is officially implemented. According to last year's budget, which was as high as 85 million yuan, the authorities this year will actively carry out cost-cutting to make up for the financial deficit and reduce the debt burden, and will pay particular attention to the salaries and wages of employees. According to the Municipal Council's Information Office, the salaries and wages of the Council's lower and higher-ranking employees have been significantly reduced since last month, which will save an estimated 9.5 million yuan per year. In addition, the Municipal Council is doing everything possible to economize on other expenses, so it is estimated that this year's budget can be reduced to about 60 million yuan.

### Robbers Invade Bank Association, Open Fire While Resisting Arrest; A Portuguese Man Injured, Officer Captures One Robber Alive

At around 2:00 PM yesterday, four robbers suddenly broke into Room 302, 3rd floor, No. 59 Hong Kong Road, International Settlement, in the Bank Association, and armed with two handguns, attempted to commit robbery. Mr. Diasmith (transliteration), a Portuguese national in the room, resisted and fought with the robbers, causing the robbers to angrily open fire, shooting and injuring Diasmith, who fell to the ground. Seeing that they had caused trouble, the four robbers rushed out the door to escape. At this time, nearby officers arrived after receiving the news and chased the four robbers. Unexpectedly, the robbers resisted arrest and opened fire, but one robber was still captured alive, and a handgun was seized, and he was taken to the police station for interrogation.

### Young Child Lost While Coming to Shanghai to Sell Rice with Family

At around 8:00 AM yesterday, a child of only nine years old, poorly dressed, barefoot, and covered in mud, carrying a peck of national rice on his shoulder, wandered around the intersection of Avenue Joffre and Hualong Road, quietly sobbing. At that time, a reporter happened to be passing by and went forward to inquire. According to him, his surname was Du, and he had come to Shanghai with his parents from Beixinjing at 4:00 AM to sell rice, along with more than twenty others. They got separated when entering the cordon. He walked and walked, hoping to find his parents, but he was now lost, he said, bursting into tears. The reporter then asked where he should be sent to return home directly. He said that when coming to Shanghai every day, he had to pass through Jing'an Temple, so if he was sent there, he could return home. The reporter then paid him the price of the national rice he was carrying and escorted him to Jing'an Temple before leaving.

### Falling Exchange Rate; Western Medicines Have Not Decreased in Price

Inventory Decreasing; Raw Materials Lacking

Most Western medicines are imported goods, although many are now manufactured by Chinese pharmaceutical factories, the raw materials are all shipped from overseas to Shanghai. After the August 13th Incident, the sharp depreciation of the shilling caused medicine prices to skyrocket. However, since the outbreak of the Pacific War, the shilling has been falling, but prices have not decreased. According to Western medicine industry insiders, prices should decrease based on the falling exchange rate. However, the inventory of Western medicines in this city is not large and is decreasing. The source of supply has also been cut off. Pharmaceutical factories in this city are experiencing a shortage of raw materials, so their output will also be affected.

### Establishment of Special Fund to Relieve British Nationals in This City, Jointly Run by Swiss Consul General and British Association, British Government Has Allocated Huge Funds to Support It

The Swiss Consul General in Shanghai, Mr. Funda Lee, announced on the morning of the 5th that a special fund has been established in this city, jointly managed by the Swiss Consulate General and the British Association, to provide relief to British nationals and people under British protection. The British government has allocated funds to support this fund. British nationals who have the "necessary qualifications" and need assistance can apply, and the Swiss Consulate General and the British Association will jointly consider providing assistance.

## Page 4

### Money Industry Annual Meeting Resolves to Restore Fixed-Term Deposits; Fukang and Seven Other Money Shops Increase Capital; Seventeen Newly Established Money Shops Approved for Membership

After the listing of the Shanghai Money Industry Trade Association member remittance money shops, the managers of the listed shops were convened at the North City Hall yesterday morning at 10:00 AM to hold an annual meeting and conduct a public memorial ceremony for the deceased elders. Fifty-two shops, including Fuyuan, Yida, Wufeng, Jukang, etc., attended, with over seventy managers, including assistant managers Yan Dayou, Xu Wenqing, Zhang Mengzhou, etc. The meeting was chaired by Standing Committee Member Zhang Wenbo, who reported on the association's affairs and accounts for the 30th year, followed by Deputy Manager Shen Binzhang of the Money Industry Reserve Bank, who reported on the situation of the Reserve Bank, passed resolutions on new member shops, and discussed various cases. The meeting ended at 2:00 PM after lunch.

Increased Capital for Various Shops

The following shops reported increases in capital: Fukang Zhuang increased capital by 300,000 yuan; Wu Zhuang increased attached capital by 320,000 yuan; Junchang Zhuang increased capital by 100,000 yuan; Yonglong Zhuang increased capital by 500,000 yuan; Yichang Zhuang increased capital by 100,000 yuan; Fuyuan Zhuang increased capital by 500,000 yuan; Zhixiang Zhuang increased capital by 200,000 yuan.

New Member Shops

The following new shops have been approved for membership after separate review, please confirm the case, including: Xinhe, Yihe, Qichang, Yonglong, Xinzhong, Shende, Dunyu, Jiachang, Baochang, Tailai, Tongkang, Zikang, Cunzhuang, Huida, Jukang, Yilong, and Zhengtai, and it was resolved to approve the confirmation.

Resolutions on Various Cases

Increase in bill discount case: It was resolved to change it to a handling fee of 30 cents uniformly. Proposal to promote the restoration of fixed-term deposits: It was resolved to approve it in principle, to be handled at the discretion of each shop. Regarding the rotating monthly duty shops for the 31st year of the Republic of China, the following were drawn: 11 shops in the North City: Xinzhong, Tailai, Dunyu, Jiachang, Yihe, Qichang, Xinhe, Yonglong, Shende, Tongkang, Baochang, Yilong, etc.; 4 shops in the South City: Zhixiang, Yichang, Junchang, Zhengxiang, etc.

Restoration of Afternoon Market

After the money industry market was listed on February 19th, the interbank interest early market was restored first. Yesterday, the interbank interest afternoon market was restored. The market announcement is recorded as follows: "This market will restore the afternoon market from 1:00 PM to 2:00 PM every day starting from March 5th. Special announcement."

### Corn Allocation Measures

The Municipal Council will allocate corn to rice shops in the two settlements for widespread sale by the end of this week or early next week. It is being milled by the Reiss & Co. to meet the retail needs of rice shops. The size of the grains is such that each grain of corn is milled into five or six grains, equal in size to rice. There are two colors, yellow and white. The allocated quantity is roughly 15 bags of corn for every 10 bags of rice allocated, and 20 bags of corn for every 15 bags of foreign rice allocated, with the rest following suit.

### Ships to Ningbo Changed to Docking at Yanpu; Direct Boarding Now Possible

Since the Municipal Council has been actively evacuating the population, the number of people leaving Shanghai to return to Ningbo has reached several thousand per day. Each Shanghai-Ningbo ship is full. According to a report by a Datong News Agency reporter yesterday, in the past, all Shanghai-Ningbo ships docked at the Yangzi Wharf on the opposite side of Yangshupu. Passengers had to take small boats from the Bund to board the ships. Now, the Naruto Maru has been changed to docking at the Taikoo Wharf, and passengers can board the ship directly. As for the other ships, Wanzhi, Hualin, and Haitong, they still have to take barges to board the ships. According to a report by a Datong News Agency reporter yesterday, the Wanzhi ship has been slightly damaged and has entered the dock for repairs. It must wait for the repairs to be completed before resuming service.

### Wednesday Commodity Prices

The following table lists the average retail prices of commodities on Wednesday, February 4th. This price list is compiled by the Industrial and Social Affairs Department of the Municipal Council: Foreign Rice Municipal Council (municipal liter) 1.70, Bian Yuan (municipal stone) 290.83, Flour (bag) 66.833, Green Vegetables (municipal catty) .417, Soybean Sprouts (municipal catty) .692, Fresh Pork (municipal catty) 3.360, Vegetable Oil (municipal catty) 3.520, Soy Sauce (municipal catty) .943, Coal Briquettes (load) 20.000, Fine Cloth (municipal foot) 1.280.

Social Services

### Suffering from Severe Mental Illness

Suffering from severe mental illness, confirmed by doctors, unable to recover. Unsure if there are hospitals in Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou, and other places for people with mental illness to live long-term, what the monthly cost is, and whether there is assistance such as half-price, etc. Zhou Xingyi, No. 64, Lane 24, Route Ghisi, asks.

### Mr. Ling Receives Assistance; Mao Zonghe Generously Donates Medical Expenses

I previously introduced Mr. Ling's younger brother to Dr. Su Zonghua at the Red Cross Hospital on Route Haig for the treatment of mental illness. Thank you for your newspaper's referral. I have now received a telegram from Dr. Su stating that his condition is still treatable and instructing him to be admitted to the hospital this Friday for careful treatment. All medical and other expenses will be borne by me, and some have already been prepaid. I hope this can be published. Mao Zonghe, To All Letter Writers, In recent days, there have been many letters inquiring about the treatment of common diseases, and some have inquired without seeking medical advice first. According to this column, for general diseases, in addition to those that have not been cured for a long time or difficult and complicated diseases that can be explored by the medical community, we will selectively publish them. For common diseases, due to space limitations, we are unable to publish them all and will not answer them. We hope that patients will seek treatment as soon as possible to avoid delays. Service Column,

Sports News

### YMCA Sports Department Prepares for This Year's Men's and Women's Volleyball Tournament

The YMCA Sports Department on Jing'an Temple Road in this city will prepare for the 14th YMCA Men's and Women's Volleyball League immediately after the end of the 14th Basketball Tournament. Last year, the participants in the league included four teams in Group A: Yinghua, YMCA, Russian Overseas, and Soviet. Because there were too few participants, a triple round-robin system was adopted. As a result, YMCA won the championship. In Group B, the Russians 독점 (독점 = monopoly) won nine games out of nine and 독점 (독점 = monopoly) the championship. The Youxing League won its fourth championship in the women's group. However, there is a rumor that only members of the association can participate in this year's league, which remains to be verified. The full list of participants in Group A, Group B, and the women's group from last year is recorded as follows: (Group A) Yinghua, Russian Overseas, YMCA, Soviet, (Group B) Russians, Giants, Sucker, White Team Peide, Beauty, Aurora, Haier, (Women's Group) Youxing, Minli, Shanghai Star, YMCA Red, Jewish, YMCA White, Adi Xue.

### Morning Friends Cup Basketball Tournament, Full Schedule Arranged

The Morning Friends Cup Basketball League, organized by the CYMCA Sports Department, has been running for over a month since its opening on January 31. The full schedule has been arranged and will be completed by April 5. Starting from April 6, the Group B 1, 2, 3, and 4 League Finals will be held. The schedule for March 7 and 8 is listed below:

March 7 Morning Friends Red vs. Overseas Chinese Two (Group B4)

Fat Team vs. Black and White (Group B3)

Lingqing vs. Overseas Chinese One (Group B2)

Xinyi vs. Lingyou One (Group B1)

China One vs. White Team (Group A)

March 8 Dawn vs. Class (Group B4)

Haihai vs. Lingdong (Group B3)

Morning Friends Blue vs. Morning Friends Yellow (Group B2)

Giants vs. Morning Friends One (Group B1) Qingyou vs. China Two (Group A)

### A Group of Early Birds in the Park (1)

— Ye Jingfeng

Regarding fresh air and sunshine, up to now, investment groups and sporadic plutocrats have yet to find a way to hoard them; thus, it is a bargain for a group of "early birds" to enjoy them as much as possible for free.

After enjoying them, why "early"? I believe that these islands, regardless of male or female, more or less have a worn-out wife or a husband with thick legs providing for them, or at least a bed and a warm bedding; in such a chilly spring morning, they should still be reluctant to leave for half an hour. Why do they have to rush to the park to be an early bird? I think, firstly, of course, it is for the fresh air in the morning; secondly, it is to be able to see with their own eyes, at the moment when the morning sun first moves, a golden crow, carrying thousands of rays of light and streaks of purple air, slowly rising from the horizon. This little bit is enough to refresh their "birds'" spirits of striving for success, and give them some indispensable vigor and inspiration. Originally, in this corner of the sea shrouded in smog, at all times deeply locked in sewage, turbid air, coal ash, smoke, etc., churning and tumbling, where is there clean land?

Last winter, an expert from the Shanghai Lester Institute of Research (according to my old friend Mr. Yu Jingmei) published a new threat to our lives—rubber dust—which is produced by the friction between rubber tires and the ground. We thought this little bit was not harmful? But if you think about it carefully, how many fine particles should be produced after a tire has been rubbed? How many broken tires should there be in Shanghai in a year? The most ingenious thing is that this rubber dust is slightly heavier than air, just floating in the space a few feet above the ground; but with a breath, it happens to drill into your lungs with the airflow, and settles there. In addition, it exerts its inherent stickiness, gradually sealing the fine tubes of your lungs! In this way, ordinary people with strong bodies will not be able to bear it, and it is conceivable that those with weak lungs will not be able to stand it; as for those who are generally troubled by tuberculosis, it is too pitiful to even talk about.

With great difficulty, at the moment of "dawn," in the relatively open park, we can find half an hour of fresh air and natural purple light to clean and wash the lungs that have been exposed to dirty air, and increase our resistance and get a little more "living" vitality. This little bit, just this little bit, isn't it worth sacrificing everything and desperately searching for? This is probably enough to explain why that group of "birds" want to be "early."

The word "bird," used on the head of "humans," the "spirit of all things," seems to contain some insulting or satirical colors, like the "bird" in the mouth of Li Kui, a hero of Liangshan. This, Heaven knows, the author has absolutely no intention of doing so; moreover, like the "bird" that Chunyu Kun referred to Qi Wei Wang—"It doesn't sing, but when it sings, it is amazing; it doesn't fly, but when it flies, it soars into the sky," how outstanding it is. What harm is there in referring to people as birds?

### ### Weights and Measures Do Not Meet Standards; Confectioner is a Repeat Offender

The Continental Confectionery Store at No. 24 Moore Road was previously prosecuted and punished twice by the police for using inaccurate scales. However, it still has not repented and continues to use them as before. This was discovered by Deputy Inspector Fei Nante, who specializes in inspecting weights and measures. He went to the store, took the scale to the police station, and filed a public lawsuit against Hua Jie, the Suzhou manager of the store. After being summoned yesterday, Hua was released on bail of 300 yuan to await sentencing.

### ### French Central Police Station Telephone; Out of Service for One Day

The telephone of the Central Police Station of the French Concession (number 70060) will be out of service from noon on March 6 to noon on March 7. Anyone who wishes to contact the police station by telephone can dial the direct telephone of each branch of the police station (see page 160 of the telephone directory).

### ### Second Lecture of Agricultural Science Seminar; Held at 4 PM Today

The agricultural science seminar organized by the Shanghai YMCA started this Tuesday and has been well received by all sectors. It is learned that the second lecture will be held today (6th) at 4 pm. Professor Wu Liuqing will speak on "Do you know how to use agricultural machinery?" The venue is the auditorium of the Association at Eight Immortals Bridge. All sectors are welcome to participate.

### ### Lao Jiu Lun Holds a Big Sale

Lao Jiu Lun Silk and Satin Shop on Nanjing Road has a long history and a well-known reputation. Its abundant stock and unique variety of patterns are especially praised by customers. In view of the soaring prices of everything, it is decided to hold a big sale starting today, with the aim of satisfying customers and not counting profits.

Yesterday's newspaper broadcast time was 6:45.

Commercial News

### ### Government Bonds Rise; Gradually Showing Strength

The gray market for government bonds continued to rise yesterday, gradually showing strength. Due to the uneven ratio of various market prices, a lot of swap transactions were triggered. Short covering and buying transactions in the market also gradually became lively. However, Dakangcheng still sold off, and Shuntai, Xie Xingyuan, and Gongmao also sold off. Lianhe, Hu Heji, and Lianyi, etc., bought in quite a bit. Tongkang bought both B and D types and sold C types, which was the most cost-effective. If large households stop selling in the future, the price will rise even more. The market price results showed that, except for A types, which rose slightly by one jiao, the rest rose uniformly by two jiao and a half to eight jiao and a half, but there were ups and downs in the middle. The transaction volume was about 500,000 to 600,000 yuan.

Category 　Highest 　Lowest 　Closing Price 　Compared to the Previous Day

Unified A 　70.50 　70.4 　70.50 　Down 0.10

Unified B 　68.40 　67.30 　68.40 　Up 0.85

Unified C 　67.45 　66.4 　67.45 　Also Up 0.55

Unified D 　61.40 　60.50 　61.2 　Also Up 0.80

Unified E 　64.10 　63.60 　64.05 　Also Up 0.15

The foreign stock market situation still showed little improvement. A total of 9,300 shares were traded. Ewo Cotton Mill was priced at 22.5 yuan and 22.25 yuan, with later bids and asks at 22.5 yuan and 22.75 yuan. Ewo Brewery fell from 5.6 yuan to 5.5 yuan. Asia Navigation was 7.5 yuan, and Ken Zhi rose from 21.75 yuan to 22 yuan. Paper was 5.8 yuan and 5.75 yuan. Xinhe Cotton Mill was 6.4 yuan. A transaction of 10,000 yuan in electric power bonds was completed, with the price rising from 68 yuan to 70 yuan. Other stocks, such as Yeguang, were priced at 15-16 yuan. Hengye's bid was 8 yuan, and the sell price was 10 yuan. The bid for telephone was 22 yuan, and the ask was 25 yuan. Tram was 36-37 yuan. Chen's bid was 0.85 yuan, and the ask was 1 yuan. Kailin was 30 yuan, electric power preferred was 94 yuan, Ince & Chaffey was 18 yuan, all with buyers. British Wool was 5 yuan, Zhongfang was 9.6 yuan, British Union was 21 yuan, Shanghai Bank was 13.5 yuan, Xiangtai Timber was 25.75 yuan, Steel was 14 yuan, Jardine Matheson was 55 yuan, Shanghai Wool was 5.8 yuan, Galandum was 1 yuan, and Langgezhi was 14.3 yuan. Dibang and Botu Anan were still 2 yuan, all with supply but no demand.

### ### Military Tickets Soar; Gold Prices Rise Suddenly

Yesterday, the cash market rose again suddenly, and the price soared to around 14,000 yuan. The price of Japanese military tickets suddenly rose sharply, and the idea of hoarding them revived. The minds of all parties were re-excited. From the morning, the initial opening price of each bar (ten taels) was raised by 200 yuan in various gold shops, to 13,750 yuan. He Fa Sheng, Da Yong Heng, and other gold shops scrambled to raise prices first, and retail investors followed suit, and the price continued to rise by 300 yuan, reaching 14,050 yuan in addition to 14,000 yuan. Cash shops limited the price and sold off. Yong Yu, Xin Feng, and Yong Securities saw the high prices and scrambled to sell, and immediately fell back 230 yuan, down to 13,820 yuan. After 11:10, the cash shops came to buy again, and Heng Yu and other securities firms absorbed them, and rose to 14,050 yuan for the second time. At noon, the final transaction price was 13,970 yuan, an increase of 420 yuan compared to the previous day. There was a difference of 100 yuan on the day, and the transaction was scarce. The price of jewelry gold per tael in Daxin Tonghang was still 1,450 yuan (150 yuan discount for purchases). Tael silver was 14 yuan. The purchase and sale price in the black market was 12 yuan and 12.5 yuan. Silver dollars were priced at 7.6 yuan each, and 400-500 yuan were traded. The later purchase price was 7.5 yuan, and the sale price was 7.8 yuan.

As for the foreign currency market, the British and American gold pounds each rose by 5 yuan, the former to 355 yuan and the latter to 365 yuan. US dollar bills were 16.82-3 yuan. Hong Kong bills were still 2.9 yuan, with large bills decreasing by one jiao. Military tickets were 4.7 yuan.

### ### Cotton Yarn Continues to Rise

Factory Orders Reach 2,610 Yuan

The cotton yarn market continued to rise due to the firm rise in Japanese yarn and cloth. The initial trading price of 20s Double Horse factory orders was 2,600 yuan, which soon rose to 2,640 yuan. At this time, many profit-taking sellers emerged and the price retraced to 2,555 yuan. The closing price was 2,610 yuan. 42s Blue Phoenix was 5,830 yuan to 5,770 yuan, 60s Blue Phoenix was 10,350 yuan, 80s Sunlight was 13,900 yuan, 42s Flower Butterfly was 5,450 yuan, 32s Gold Solid Star was 4,570 yuan, 32s Blue Phoenix was 4,930 yuan, 20s Harvest was 3,300 yuan to 3,270 yuan, 23s Golden Chicken was 2,380 yuan. Factory orders: 18s Weaver Girl was 2,750 yuan, 20s Double Horse was 2,800 yuan, 20s Golden Pagoda was 2,800 yuan, 20s Moon Qin was 3,000 yuan, 20s Celestial Maiden was 2,880 yuan, 16s Aircraft was 2,570 yuan, 16s Golden Bridge was 2,600 yuan, 20s Double Earth was 2,720 yuan, 16s Big Treasure was 2,450 yuan, 10s Boy Scouts was 1,900 yuan, and 10s Pine Crane was 1,700 yuan.

### ### Piece Goods Buying Frenzy; Straight Line Upward

Factory Cloth The market was flat in the morning and firm at noon. The actual sales were flat, but the hoarding was extremely strong, resulting in a situation that was easy to rise but difficult to fall. The number of transactions among peers increased sharply. At the end of the market, coarse cloth and fine cloth rose by 0.5 to 1.5 yuan. Poplin bleached cloth and blue cloth were flat, because although the factory prices were high, those who had made profits sold off at lower prices. The factory price of Butterfly Ann Ann blue cloth was 150 yuan, but retail goods were only selling for 140 yuan. The prices of shilin cloth, bleached cloth, and poplin were also very different. Dapeng fine cloth was 109.5 yuan, Fugui was 107 yuan, Earth was 111 yuan, 16-pound Flower Butterfly coarse cloth was 135 yuan, 11-pound Three Rabbits was 90 yuan, and 8-pound Zhenzhong was 67.15 yuan, with factory prices opening at 68 yuan.

Eastern Cloth The rising trend remained strong and continued to rise. The new factory order for 12-pound Dragon Head fine cloth revolved around 126 yuan in the morning market. In the afternoon market, the buying frenzy inside and outside the industry was strong, and it rose in a straight line to close at 129.25 yuan, an increase of 4.5 yuan per piece. Although the old stack orders and spot goods did not rise much, the Dragon Head old orders rose to 124.5 yuan, and the spot goods were only 115.25 yuan. Mid-range brands were still in short supply. Flying Fish Rainbow Ball opened at 117.5 yuan, Yanghe at 117 yuan, Loudspeaker at 115 yuan, Five Blessings at 114.5 yuan, and Double Fish at 114 yuan. The demand for fine twill was weak. Five Blessings and Double Fish were traded at 105 yuan, Treasure at 103 yuan, and Four Gentlemen's Serge fluctuated greatly. The highest price for new orders from October to December was 4.3 yuan, and the lowest was 4.1 yuan. It closed at 4.23 yuan in the evening. New tax for red orders was 4.13 yuan, July to September was 4.08 yuan, and spot goods were 4.05 yuan.

### ### National Rice Sees Selling at High Prices

Although national rice was digested actively yesterday, some retail investors sold at high prices. Early and late rice from the near suburbs and southern gangs continued to be flat and weak. Late rice opened at 278 yuan to 276.5 yuan, and early rice opened at 279 yuan to 277 yuan. However, Yuan rice was digested without weakening, and the source was not surging. The Yin Yuan still opened at 280 yuan. Northern japonica rice was also stable due to its scarcity. Suzhou white japonica rice opened at 296 yuan.

### ### Little Bean Activity

Red Grain, Bean Cake, and Raw Peanuts are All Being Purchased

The bean market still lacked activity from hoarders. Although the sales were not strong, the market was quite flat. There were no major changes in the prices of various goods. A total of 50 bags of Kai Ping Hu Du beans were sold, priced at 167 yuan to 164 yuan. 60 bags of Ding Jia Zhou soybeans were sold, priced at 160 yuan. More than 100 bags of Wuhu soybeans were sold at 158 yuan. 500 bags of Tianjin medium-grade red beans were sold at 120 yuan. 30 bags of Chongming sand red beans were sold at 128-9 yuan. Another 50 bags of sand silkworms were sold at 89 yuan. 100 bags of Ben Niu cowpeas were sold at 125 yuan. 50 bags of Wu Jiang picked green were sold at 125 yuan.

The retail sales of red grain and raw peanuts on this street remained strong, and the owners continued to push sales, and prices continued to advance to new highs. Yesterday, a cart of Kai Ming Guang red grain was sold, priced at 92 yuan. More than 100 bags of Jiangbei raw peanuts were sold at 300 yuan to 292 yuan. 200 bags of Yantai Xiaoyang Zhuang raw peanuts were sold at 320 yuan.

The bean cake market suddenly became popular yesterday. It was rumored that the Xiamen gang had already obtained transportation permits, and sales to customers were expected, which stimulated buying interest. The market prices uniformly increased by 2-3 yuan. A total of 1,000 pieces of Hankou bean cake were sold, priced at 27 yuan. 2,000 pieces of Li Zi bean cake for the March-April stack order were sold, priced at 41 yuan to 42.5 yuan. 2,000 pieces of Feng Ji new bean cake were sold, priced at 39 yuan to 40 yuan. 6,000 pieces of Shen Ji bean cake for the May stack order were priced at 38 yuan to 38.5 yuan, and the June-July stack order was priced at 37.5 yuan to 39 yuan.

There was not enough wheat bran available in the spot market, and those who controlled the goods were becoming increasingly speculative. Yesterday, some scattered hoarders and rural villages in the interior competed to buy. Sanxin small packages immediately sold for 72 yuan. The price of large packages opened at 69.5 yuan, and then rose to 70.02 yuan, 71 yuan to 71.2 yuan. More than 2,000 packages were traded.

There was little wheat in stock, and the sellers still planned to sell it at the original price of 130 yuan. However, Japanese factories thought the price was too high and not cost-effective for flour production, so they planned to wait for the price to fall before buying. In recent days, they have not shown any interest, and foreign transport passes have not been issued.

### ### Cigarette Prices; Still Difficult to Reduce

The downward trend in cigarette prices has been flat, because the price limits of the authorities have not yet been implemented, and the factory's shipping procedures have not been completed. The demand from Mujie has not decreased. The holders are uncertain, and the market has temporarily calmed down. The trading prices are: Big British brand, 7,000 yuan per carton; Old Knife brand, 6,300 yuan; Pin Hai brand, 6,000 yuan; Five Hua brand, 4,000 yuan; Little Fairy brand, 4,100 yuan, all slightly more popular than the previous day's buying price. The trading prices of various Japanese cigarette brands are still difficult to reduce. The trading prices are: Jin Qiang brand, 1,680 yuan; Jin Da Lou, 1,900 yuan; Red Rose brand, 2,900 yuan. It is still difficult to predict whether the market will rise or fall in the future.

### ### Green Sugar Sees Increase

According to the recent situation, the total amount of sugar supplied to other retailers this month is approximately 30,000 bags. The price has not changed much. However, green sugar is higher than the Shanghai market due to domestic sales. It has not been shipped for a long time and has disappeared. Therefore, Dongwu Qing and Wanqing are also very high. The current market price is 265 yuan, an increase of more than 10 yuan, which is also due to the increase in military tickets.

### ### Sack Stocks Lack

The market for sacks is feeling the lack of goods, and the price is rising steadily. Yesterday, the market price for 2.5-pound new bags was 18 yuan to 19 yuan, and the price for 2.25-pound new green line bags was 18 yuan to 18.5 yuan. The price for refurbished bags on this street was 14 yuan to 14.5 yuan, and the price for Saigon white line rice bags was 8.5 yuan to 9 yuan.

## Page 5

Chunqiu (Annals)

### The Person Who Jumped from the Building is Unknown

— Wei Cheng

On the morning of the 4th, at about 9 o'clock, a Chinese man with ragged clothes jumped from a building on Edward Road and died immediately. The reason for the suicide is unknown, and there was no single piece of paper in his pocket. All the onlookers were unable to call out his name. (See the 5th issue of this newspaper) This suicide jumper did not "leave a name after death," which seems to give people some inexplicable "regret." Moreover, he is not the kind of person that "everyone in the world knows," so he has no qualifications for people to hear about him. Therefore, his face is also extremely strange, and no one can call out his name. It is inevitable to be surprised after reading the news, but it is also very common. What is so strange about it? It is just that the journalist's pen has a kind of "objective sadness."

In the past, the expert in detachment, Mr. Zhuang Zhou, when he came across a skeleton on the road, would stroke his horse whip and say, "Are you a traveler from another country who was beaten with a sap? Or did you eat Guan Dao noodles? Or are you a confused bug who became a starving corpse? Or are you a drunkard who fell to his death?" (General idea) After this Chinese man with ragged clothes fell, if there was a modern expert in detachment among the passersby, he might as well use a stick to touch him and ask, "What is your honorable surname? Where do you come from? Where are you going? Or do you want to return to your hometown? How much severance pay do you have? Or did you get squeezed out of the rice mill and commit suicide out of resentment? Or are you a playboy who got dizzy with the heat of a woman, or were you stripped of your horse-hair coat and thrown off the top floor?"

However, the person who jumped from the building has already "died immediately" and cannot respond. If we use the most scientific investigation methods to synthesize it, this ragged appearance can be worthwhile as a reference for "inquiry," probably a bit far from "suicide due to unrequited love" or "being too happy to bear." But a hero is nameless and not worth paying attention to.

History has the dewdrop falling from the building, but not the ragged person jumping from the building. Forget it. To ask for your honorable surname, there are more people lying and sleeping on the road than there are stars in the sky, so it is not surprising. In the end, aren't the tricycles of Pushan Villa and Fuyuan Hall returning fully loaded? The well-meaning people are just some shopkeepers or residents at the "scene of the accident" burning a few strings of paper ingots, and then they can rest assured and let it go.

### ### Seeing, Hearing, Thinking

— Qin Ren

Next to the Great World, there is often a beggar. The woman performs the act of eating chaff. Although passersby stop to watch, very few give money.

Next to the Great World, there are also often groups of children wandering around. Yesterday I heard a child pointing at the chaff-eating beggar woman and saying to his companion, "This is the modern Zhao Wuniang!"

I was initially confused, but later I realized that she was the virtuous daughter-in-law of the "Chaff-Eating Head of State." Guessing, the child is either a faithful reader of illustrated novels or a regular customer of comic books, and I couldn't help but blurt out: "So he is a self-taught scholar!"

### ### Sharing the Same Boat in the Storm

— He Jia Zhi

(I) Evening of Storm

"Again, Guofang went out, and she also didn't come back when it was time for dinner. My grandmother also sent the old nanny to look for her, asking the people in the shops, 'Have you seen our Miss Fang?' The people in the first shop said, 'Is it the one wearing a sleeveless qipao, going east?' Another shop said, 'She was going east with a female companion.' Another shop said, 'She just went to the Zhu family in the Black Wall Gate.' The old nanny went to the Zhu family to look for her, and Guofang was indeed inside. Weicheng, you think, aren't the people in Shuangqiao paying attention to Guofang instead of me?"

Guoqi's words did not contain any malice. Weicheng and Guofang smiled. Guofang said: "Whatever you say from my brother's mouth is especially vivid and colorful. No wonder he was ranked second in the speech contest at school." Weicheng said: "Talking and laughing like this will make the journey seem shorter. Guoqi, why don't you study law instead of liberal arts? If you study law, you can either run for the political stage or be a defense lawyer." Guoqi said: "Why should I run for the political stage? I don't, I don't." He shook his head constantly.

After some splendor in the boat, it returned to calm. After a moment of silence, Guoqi suddenly asked Weicheng, "Are you engaged?" Weicheng shook his head and asked Guoqi, "What about you?" Guoqi said: "I am not either. I am most opposed to early marriage among the people in my hometown, and I am also opposed to childhood engagement. I often see people in Shuangqiao, a boy in his teens, and a girl in her eight or nine years old, saying that they are engaged couples. That appearance is not only laughable but also pitiful." As Guoqi said this, the boatman shouted again. This was not a call to turn a corner, but he was calling Mr. Chen. Guoqi stopped talking.

(I4) (End of this section)

### ### The Division Between Hate and Love

— Ren Shan

Recently there have been more rainy days and fewer sunny days. Except for rickshaw pullers, no one is not complaining. In fact, rickshaw pullers don't necessarily like rainy days. Wearing straw sandals and running in the rain, the rain hitting their faces head-on, even a healthy body will not feel comfortable. However, there are more customers taking rickshaws, and the price is easier to get higher for the same trip. Liking rainy days is only for the sake of livelihood.

"Sharing the same boat in the storm" has the saying of changing Wednesday to Sunday. This can be said to be a joke. Even if it is implemented, the other six days will still be fraught with wind and rain. Moreover, there are more people working than playing. People who go to the office have to rush to sign in. Teachers who have to catch the clock, patrolmen on duty, have to arrive on time, which is hard for their legs. Although electric trams have a longer life than buses, as high as the Southern Mountain, not being able to open the doors at the station and being squeezed like a freight car is not something that ordinary people can enjoy. When rickshaw pullers like it, our fare budget cannot satisfy their hopes.

Everyone dislikes rainy days for countless reasons.

However, it is not entirely true. In a few months it will be summer. When the poisonous sun shines on the top of the head and the body is dripping with stinking sweat, hearing the thunder or a flash of lightning, who is not hoping for heavy rain immediately?

"Lovely winter", "I love spring", etc., are essay topics written by elementary school students. Speaking of lovely, all seasons are lovely, and do not distinguish between sunny and rainy days. Speaking of hateful, it is simply impossible to pass a second. However, it is precisely because of the need to survive that there is a distinction between hate and love.

It is because people's tempers have changed that even the change of weather is against them. There is a cartoon that says the father hit the mother. Is it because the mother cooked the food badly, or because she is not faithful to her husband? Neither! It's because the father lost his job!

How pitiful, the division between hate and love.

Looking at the rain in the sky, the heart cavity crawls like earthworms.

### Casual Talk on "Pipe Smoking"

— A Ding

As cigarettes become increasingly expensive, more and more friends are switching to "pipe smoking." Everyone holding a "pipe" in their hand transforms the smoking trend.

Imported pipes are very expensive. Recently, I went to a tobacco shop with a friend and saw two Three B brand pipes placed in the cabinet, lying side by side in a box, looking like mandarin ducks sleeping with their necks intertwined, priced at over two hundred and eighty yuan. Even ordinary ones cost thirty or forty yuan, so the initial equipment cost for those who smoke "pipes" is quite considerable.

As for tobacco, the best quality is more expensive than well-known cigarette brands. An ordinary two-ounce package costs two or three yuan. After stuffing the "pipe" full, you slowly draw on it, teeth biting the mouthpiece, the tobacco in the pipe bowl burning red through "drawing," and emitting a slight "hissing" sound; wisps of smoke rise slowly, transforming into countless "vague" wave circles. This is where smoking pipe tobacco has a greater "sense of reality" than cigarettes, and also the "poetic" realm of holding a pipe.

Stuffing, tapping, clearing – these are the three steps of smoking pipe tobacco. Compared to smoking cigarettes, the procedure is naturally more complex, but the fun lies in these steps. The tobacco in the pipe must be stuffed full and tightly; but if it’s not ventilated, it won't light. Although there is a ready-made tool for clearing the airway available, it lacks artistry. Those experienced in smoking pipe tobacco can achieve a balance between looseness and tightness, just right – that's the skill.

When there is a pipe smoker in the house, there is often a "clack, clack..." tapping sound. There is no skill in removing ash, but incessant tapping can be annoying – unless you're living privately, in which case it's an exception – tapping properly can alleviate the silence in the room.

Clearing is the most time-consuming task, or in other words, it is the pipe cleaning process. There are special pipe cleaners for cleaning pipes, and the technique and posture are all important. Practice makes perfect, and over time, feelings develop. It's like playing with antiques; you must actually touch and appreciate them to understand the subtle pleasures.

Pipe smokers should preferably have several "pipes" to alternate smoking. Different styles and designs can also increase interest. Collecting pipes is like stamp collecting; Westerners consider it one of their hobbies. There are undoubtedly many "Masters of a Hundred Pipes," "Hermits of Two Hundred Pipes," and so on. The American Good Rich Company (a store that sells pipe tobacco) has a collection of various precious pipes worth up to twenty-five thousand US dollars.

Ship owners who like to smoke pipes on large ships often hang a dozen or so pipes of different sizes on the platform. While stuffing, tapping, and clearing, they battle the raging waves in the vast sea, considering "pipe smoking" as the only companion in their solitary life.

The great German philosopher Albert Einstein had a penchant for smoking pipes. Seeing him with a "pipe" in hand, his silver-white hair disheveled, he sought the secrets of the universe in the subtle "hissing" sound and countless smoke rings.

Women smoke cigarettes, but you don't see them holding pipes, which is something men can be proud of.

### Saving People and Flattering Ghosts

— Wen Zhen

Beggar: "Madam, I'm starving to death, please do a good deed!"

Madam: "Get out of the way, there are too many beggars, it's impossible to do good deeds properly!"

Maid: "Madam, today is the end of the small month, should we burn some paper money!"

Madam: "Good, many beggars have died in the alley these days, you can buy a few more strings."

### Stage and Screen

— Tai Xu

"Red Treasure" and "Heavenly Palace" are both making gimmicks on "Thunderstorm," one is "old brand," and the other is "a grand collection of movie stars and artists." Probably neither will be seriously harmed, but without new creations, only remaking old plays, I am afraid it is "not good for business."

## Page 6

