Title: Molotov's Speech on the Korean Question at the Geneva Conference, May 11

Author:

Date: 1954-05-13
Page: 1

    Mr. Chairman, fellow delegates:
    The discussion on the Korean question at this meeting reveals considerable divergence of opinions regarding the solution to this problem.
      The representative of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea has presented here proposals for restoring Korea's unification and making it an independent and democratic country. These proposals have been supported by the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union. These proposals are based on the premise that restoring Korea's unification is primarily a matter for the Korean people themselves. From this point of view, any attempt to impose on them a solution regarding the political and social system of the Korean state that is unacceptable to the Korean people is rejected. No matter what people say in this regard, the Soviet government has every reason to say that this position of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is in line with democratic principles and also in line with the fundamental interests and national rights of the Korean people.
    Another position on the Korean question has also emerged at this meeting. This position is to impose on the Korean people the illegal resolution passed by the United Nations General Assembly on October 7, 1950, when the Korean War was raging. This resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, passed despite the protests of the Soviet Union and many other UN member states, attempts to support an aggressive plan aimed at placing not only South Korea but also North Korea under the actual control of the US armed forces. Based on this resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, the "United Nations Commission for the Unification and Rehabilitation of Korea" was established. At the same time, the task of ensuring so-called "stability" not only in South Korea but also in "all of Korea" was put forward. This is an attempt to implement military occupation of the entire Korea and to justify the expansion of US aggression in the Far East. The Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea firmly opposes this illegal resolution aimed at aggression against North Korea. Therefore, the fact that someone is advocating the implementation of this illegal resolution again in their speeches here is merely an attempt to use the banner of the United Nations to conceal the predatory plans of the aggressive countries for Korea. Those who insist on implementing this illegal resolution of the United Nations General Assembly at the Geneva Conference are trying to obtain in these negotiations what they could not obtain by force during the three years of the Korean War.
      I. The Korean Question and the United Nations
    Because of all this, it is necessary to specifically discuss the role played by the United Nations in the Korean affair. This is especially necessary because well-known facts about the Korean affair continue to be distorted here at this meeting.
    In reality, the United Nations organization has never been in such a humiliating position as it was during this period of the Korean affair. The facts show that the United States used the banner of the United Nations in Korea this time to achieve its own goals, which have nothing in common with the interests, rights, and objectives of this international organization. Since we are discussing the Korean question at the Geneva Conference, we should look back at the development of the Korean affair after the end of World War II.
    In the summer of 1945, according to the agreement between the allied countries participating in the war against Japanese militarism, Soviet troops entered the Korean territory north of the 38th parallel, while US troops entered the Korean territory south of the 38th parallel. Their mission was to accept the surrender of the Japanese army, which had previously been defeated by the Soviet army in Manchuria, thereby helping the Korean people to get rid of nearly forty years of Japanese occupation. Naturally, due to this situation, the question of unifying North and South Korea into a single democratic state became particularly important.
    As early as the Moscow Conference of Foreign Ministers of the United States, Britain, and the Soviet Union in December 1945, the issue of unifying Korea had been raised. The US government's plan for Korea at that time immediately proved that the United States was not concerned about the issue of rebuilding an independent Korean state. At that time, the United States suggested establishing a trusteeship system for Korea for five to ten years by four countries (the United States, Britain, China, and the Soviet Union), and stipulating that a special agency composed of the four countries would manage the entire Korea. The Soviet Union opposed this plan at that time.
    Due to the insistence of the Soviet Union, the Moscow Conference adopted the following main resolutions on December 27, 1945: "With a view to the re-establishment of Korea as an independent state and the establishment of conditions for the development of Korea on democratic principles and the earliest possible liquidation of the disastrous effects of Japanese long control in Korea, there shall be set up a provisional Korean democratic government which shall take all necessary steps for developing the industry, transport and agriculture of Korea and the national culture of the Korean people."
    In order to practically implement the resolutions of the Moscow Conference (which the Chinese government later joined), the Soviet-American Joint Commission was established, composed of representatives from the Soviet military command and the US military command stationed in Korea.
    Although the US government signed the agreement on the formation of the provisional Korean democratic government, it did not follow the path that could guarantee the realization of this resolution. The Soviet-American Joint Commission held several meetings in Seoul in 1946 and 1947 to discuss this issue. However, no agreement could be reached. The US representatives actually tried to obliterate the role of North and South Korean democratic organizations in consulting the Joint Commission. The US representatives in South Korea relied on a narrow group of reactionary elements who were divorced from the people and advocated suppressing democratic aspirations. These groups were used to obstruct any decisions on the establishment of the provisional Korean democratic government. Due to the position taken by the US representatives, the Soviet-American Joint Commission failed to pass any resolutions on the establishment of the provisional Korean democratic government.
    From this time on, the US government began to attempt to use the banner of the United Nations to make the Korean affair develop in the direction the US government wanted. At this time, the United States no longer cared about the resolutions of the Moscow Conference signed by the US Secretary of State. At the same time, it no longer considered that the Korean issue was a problem directly related to the consequences of the war, and according to Article 107 of the United Nations Charter, this issue was not within the jurisdiction of the United Nations.
    During the period from 1947 to 1949, the US representative to the United Nations tried every means to use this international organization to achieve its own goals. Despite the protests from the Soviet Union and several other countries, stating that it was illegal to discuss the Korean question in the United Nations, they forced the United Nations General Assembly to discuss the Korean question. Thus began the first stage of the United States' use of the United Nations flag for illegal interference in Korean affairs. In this situation, two clearly unacceptable measures were taken.
    The Korean Commission established under the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly actually had to confirm the existence of the anti-democratic, corrupt, and terrorist Lee Seung-man regime in South Korea. However, this commission also acted as a protector of this anti-people regime. The United Nations Korean Commission even played the role of supervisor in the South Korean "parliamentary election" drama, although this election was simply an insult to the rights of the Korean people and the most basic democratic standards. On the other hand, this commission also attempted to expand its activities to North Korea. This was an attempt to extend the anti-people South Korean regime to the entire Korea. However, all these attempts were resolutely opposed by the residents of North Korea and the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
    While the United Nations organization was attempting to interfere in North Korea's internal affairs, Lee Seung-man began to openly threaten to launch a war against North Korea. For example, in a letter to US Professor Oliver in September 1949, Lee Seung-man said: "Now is the most psychologically favorable time to take offensive steps and unite those in the North Korean communist forces who are loyal to us in order to annihilate the rest." On December 30, 1949, Lee Seung-man publicly stated that his determined goal in the new year (i.e., 1950) was to seize North Korea. He said at the time: "In the new year, due to changes in the international situation, we must reunify North and South Korea through our own efforts." The Lee Seung-man group thus prepared for the Korean War under the protection of the United States.
    The war forced upon Korea by external forces broke out in June 1950. This war turned into three years of US military intervention. They tried their best to use the United Nations flag to cover up this war.
    This began the second stage of intervention, which was the illegal and open aggressive intervention by the United States in Korean affairs, or more precisely, in the Korean War, under the banner of the United Nations.
    The actual situation can be seen from the following facts.
    On June 27, 1950, President Truman announced that he had ordered the US armed forces to participate in the war against North Korea. In addition, the US fleet stationed in the Far East was ordered to "prevent any attack on Formosa (Taiwan)." This meant the actual occupation of China's Taiwan Island. That is to say, the US government shifted from a policy of preparing for aggression to direct acts of aggression and began to interfere undisguisedly in the affairs of Korea and China. It was only after President Truman issued the order for the United States to launch an aggression against Korea that the Security Council convened a meeting on June 27 and passed a resolution requiring the UN member states to participate in this war, and described this action as assistance to the South Korean regime. The Security Council's resolution on June 27, and the resolutions on June 25 and in July 1950, severely violated the United Nations Charter and were therefore illegal. These resolutions cannot have legal effect because the representatives of the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China, two permanent members of the Security Council, were absent when the Security Council passed these resolutions. Moreover, according to the provisions of the United Nations Charter, a resolution of the Security Council on issues of war and peace can only have legal effect if a majority of the members of the Security Council agree, and among these majority members must be the five permanent members of the Security Council. Of particular significance in this case is the absence in the Security Council of a Chinese representative who has a direct interest in the Korean War. And the participation of the Kuomintang representative in adopting the above resolutions can only strengthen the illegality of these resolutions.
    Some people here have cited these resolutions of the Security Council to justify the behavior of some countries in participating in the Korean War. But these illegal resolutions of the Security Council cannot be regarded as resolutions of the United Nations organization. Therefore, the United Nations flag was only used as a pretext for some countries to participate in the Korean War. The Security Council's violation of the United Nations Charter was because the US aggressive bloc needed such a pretext.
    The real reasons for the US participation in the Korean War were revealed in many subsequent statements made by US officials. The famous US General Van Fleet admitted in January 1952: There must be a Korea somewhere, if not here, then somewhere else in the world. He defended the US participation in the Korean War by saying that the situation created by the Korean War enabled US factories to now manufacture an increasing amount of munitions. It is very obvious that the Korean War helped to promote the arms race policy, and this is exactly what the US aggressive bloc wanted. During the period from 1950 to 1953 and until the signing of the Korean Armistice Agreement, the United Nations organization passed several resolutions on the Korean issue. Since the Soviet Union resumed its attendance at the meetings of the Security Council in August 1950, it has no longer been possible to use the flag of the Security Council to cover up the US aggression against Korea. From then on, the United Nations General Assembly was used as a cover, which greatly undermined the international prestige of the United Nations General Assembly.
    It should be mentioned here that all these resolutions of the Security Council and the United Nations General Assembly were passed without considering the interests of the Korean people and without the participation of representatives of the Korean people in the discussion of these resolutions. Suffice it to say that the opinions of the representatives of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea have never been heard once when the United Nations considered the Korean issue.
    In addition to South Korea, a total of sixteen countries participated in the war against North Korea. These include the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the Union of South Africa , Turkey , Colombia ,Greece,Luxemburg, Thailand, the Philippines, and Abyssinia. Listing these countries shows that most of the above-mentioned countries participating in the war are countries that own colonies or advocate maintaining the colonial system. Therefore, it is not accidental that almost no Asian countries participated in this war. For example, no Asian country in the British Commonwealth was willing to participate in the war. As for the individual Asian countries that ultimately participated in this war, it is not difficult to see that these countries are those that have not yet obtained even the minimum degree of independence of action or are bound by aggressive major powers. The facts show that the troops invading North Korean territory were merely troops under the name of the United Nations. In fact, among the foreign troops participating in the war of aggression against North Korea, at least nine-tenths were US troops. The troops of the other fifteen countries combined accounted for at most only one-tenth of the foreign troops participating in the Korean War. Their participation was only a cover for the US aggression against Korea. From this, it can also be seen who should bear the primary responsibility for this heinous, unprecedentedly cruel, barbaric, and inhuman act of war. However, this does not alleviate the responsibility of the other countries that participated in the Korean adventure.
    Nor can we ignore the facts that occurred after the signing of the Korean Armistice Agreement. As everyone knows, after the signing of the Korean Armistice Agreement, the United States and South Korea immediately began negotiations on the conclusion of a military treaty. This treaty was signed on October 1, 1953, and is called the "US-ROK Mutual Defense Treaty." But everyone knows that the intention of this military treaty is not to ensure the "common defense" of South Korea and the United States, but for the opposite purpose.
    The US aggressive bloc wants to use this treaty to secure a military springboard for itself, so as to further threaten North Korea and the People's Republic of China. This treaty is one of the main obstacles to the road of unification between North and South Korea.
    When the United States and South Korea concluded the "Mutual Defense" treaty, they no longer wanted to use the banner of the United Nations to cover it up. This time, they used a method that made it easier for them to do whatever they wanted in the future when they deemed it appropriate to launch a new war of aggression on the Korean Peninsula.
    Based on some facts of the Korean War, what conclusions can be drawn about the United Nations? The conclusion is clear.
    Due to the many illegal actions taken by the United Nations Security Council and the United Nations General Assembly, the United Nations became one of the parties fighting in Korea. In fact, the United Nations flag was only used there to cover up US aggression. In the eyes of the people of the world, the United Nations has become a belligerent party, which has greatly reduced the prestige of this international organization. In this situation, the United Nations has lost its ability to act as an impartial international organization and can no longer objectively fulfill its responsibilities in resolving the Korean issue.
    II. The Task of the Geneva Conference
    Everyone knows that the Korean armistice was achieved due to the initiative of the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Government of the People's Republic of China. This initiative received the active support of the Soviet Union.
    However, even after the signing of the Armistice Agreement, the United Nations, under pressure from the United States and certain other countries, appeared powerless in implementing the terms of the Armistice Agreement. Although an agreement had been reached in the Armistice Agreement to convene a political conference to resolve the Korean issue, the United Nations General Assembly was still unable to guarantee the convening of this conference because its resolution on this issue was not in line with the Armistice Agreement. Everyone also knows that the issue of the free return of POWs from the DPRK and China to their homeland has not yet been resolved in accordance with the Armistice Agreement. If the proposals put forward by the People's Republic of China on this issue are adopted, it would be in line with the requirements of the corresponding international agreements.
    It was only after the conference of the foreign ministers of France, the United Kingdom, the United States, and the Soviet Union issued the Berlin Conference Communiqué on February 18 that it was possible to convene the Geneva Conference to discuss the resolution of the Korean issue. The Soviet delegation fully agreed with Premier Zhou Enlai's statement that the Geneva Conference to resolve the Korean issue and the Indochina issue has nothing to do with the United Nations. This conference is held outside the scope of the United Nations, and therefore it is not bound by any resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly. The Geneva Conference was convened for the following two issues: the peaceful resolution of the Korean issue and the restoration of peace in Indochina. The characteristic of the Geneva Conference is the indisputable fact that only five countries, namely France, the United Kingdom, the United States, the People's Republic of China, and the Soviet Union, are participating in the discussion of both issues. This shows that these five countries bear special responsibility for resolving the above two major issues. Other countries attending the Geneva Conference only participate in the discussion of one of these two issues, either the Korean issue or the Indochina issue, but this does not diminish their role in participating in the discussion of the corresponding issue.
    Therefore, the US delegation's attempt to disregard the existence of the special responsibility of France, the United Kingdom, the United States, the People's Republic of China, and the Soviet Union at the Geneva Conference is unfounded. The lack of basis for this attempt can also be seen from the fact that the United Nations Charter also stipulates that the five major powers, as permanent members of the Security Council, bear special responsibility for resolving international issues that are of great significance for consolidating peace and international security.
    At this meeting, some delegations attempted to make it seem as if the Geneva Conference must act on the principle of fulfilling the October 7, 1950, resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on the Korean issue, which was passed at the most intense time of US aggression in Korea.
    However, they kept silent about the intention of this resolution of the United Nations General Assembly. And I have already pointed out above the illegality of this resolution.
    For this purpose, according to the resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on October 7, 1950, a new United Nations commission composed of representatives of several countries was formed, and most of the countries participating in this commission participated in the US aggression against Korea. The composition of this commission is proof. Five of the seven members of the commission, Australia, the Netherlands, Turkey, Thailand, and the Philippines, had troops that invaded North Korean territory together with US troops. The commission was entrusted to "take appropriate steps to ensure the stability of the situation in all of Korea," including "holding elections." This resolution of the United Nations General Assembly openly pointed out that the commission would rely on "United Nations armed forces" in South and North Korea. The purpose of this resolution of the United Nations General Assembly, which most of the representatives speaking here insist on implementing, is to impose the Lee Seung-man regime of South Korea on the entire Korea by means of military occupation.
    Everyone knows that they used force to carry out a three-year war of aggression and did not achieve this goal. Is it not clear that since the Korean people cannot be forced to accept the Lee Seung-man regime by force, this goal cannot be achieved in the Geneva negotiations? In any case, the very fact that the Korean issue is being discussed at the Geneva Conference should convince those who pretend not to understand this point.
    However, another plan for rebuilding Korea's unification and peacefully resolving the entire Korean issue was put forward at the Geneva Conference. This plan was put forward by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
    What is the essence of the proposals of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea?
    The Soviet delegation considers it necessary to draw the attention of the Geneva Conference to the main aspects of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea's plan, which stipulates the implementation of three main proposals.
    First, this plan stipulates that general elections must be held in all of Korea under the conditions of the free will of the residents of all of Korea.
    This plan stipulates that the Koreans themselves should solve the problem of organizing a suitable all-Korean commission for the general election by means of an agreement between North and South Korea. This commission is composed of representatives from both sides of Korea.
    Second, the plan of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea stipulates that all foreign troops must be withdrawn from Korea within a certain time limit. According to this plan, it must be withdrawn within six months. However, the Foreign Minister of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Nan Il, has already said that the issue of the time limit for withdrawing foreign troops from Korea can be studied and appropriately consulted. The rationality of the proposal to withdraw foreign troops from Korea before holding free elections in all of Korea is extremely obvious. If foreign troops who recently participated in the war remain in Korea, it will naturally be impossible to ensure that the Korean people can fully and freely express their will when electing the all-Korean parliament—which will establish a democratic government for a unified Korea. It is evident that foreign troops should be withdrawn before all-Korean elections are held. To prevent the all-Korean elections from being delayed, a term as short as possible should be determined for the withdrawal of troops.
    Third, the plan of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea also stipulates that it is necessary for countries that are particularly concerned about maintaining peace in the Far East to guarantee the future peaceful development of Korea. Reaching such an agreement between countries is of great significance to the Korean people. This agreement should prevent all conspiracies to launch a new war in Korea. Since all the participants here have expressed their willingness to guarantee the future peaceful development of Korea, there should not be any insurmountable obstacles to reaching the above agreement. The Soviet government is ready to complete this task jointly with other countries and is ready to assume corresponding obligations in guaranteeing the peaceful development of Korea.
    In this way, the plan of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea opens up clear and broad prospects for the final resolution of the Korean issue. It guarantees the restoration of the unification of the independent Korean state on a democratic basis, eliminates any pressure from foreign countries on Korea's internal affairs, and at the same time establishes external security conditions for unifying Korea into an independent, democratic state in a stable and lasting peaceful environment.
    Among the proposals of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, the most fiercely opposed is the proposal to establish an all-Korean commission to prepare for and hold all-Korean free elections for the Korean National Assembly and to take urgent measures to promote economic and cultural rapprochement between North and South Korea. They argue that such an all-Korean commission composed of representatives from North and South Korea cannot resolve the issues entrusted to it through mutual agreement. However, negating the necessity of this agreement is tantamount to negating even the possibility of unifying North and South Korea on a democratic basis, that is, attempting to impose the will of one party on the other.
    The residents of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea have carried out heroic struggles and made great sacrifices in defending their democratic achievements. Who can believe that the Democratic People's Republic of Korea can be forced to give up its rights and democratic fruits? If North Korea is subordinate to the current South Korean regime, it is inevitable that it will give up its rights and democratic achievements. Then, how can one explain the selfless struggle of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea against foreign aggression and the South Korean regime?
    There are some important reasons for this.
    Everyone knows that farmers account for the majority of Korean residents. After Korea was liberated from the shackles of Japanese colonialists, farmers in northern Korea immediately gained unprecedented opportunities to improve their lives and improve their material and cultural standards. The land formerly owned by Japanese landlords and their Korean accomplices was transferred to the hands of North Korean farmers. More than 700,000 households of landless and land-poor farmers have acquired more than one million hectares of land free of charge. This land previously belonged to Japanese colonialists and their accomplices who oppressed and bankrupted farmers.
    The constitution of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea consolidates this significant democratic achievement of North Korean farmers.
    The situation of farmers in South Korea is different. Even according to the materials of the United Nations Korean Commission, 40 percent of the land in South Korea during the Japanese occupation belonged to Japanese occupiers. According to other materials, they owned much more land, two-thirds of the Korean land belonged to them. However, after the Japanese militarists were driven away, these lands in South Korea were transferred to the hands of people in the ruling group, most of whom were former Japanese accomplices.
    As for the farmers (that is, the majority of poor and middle peasants in South Korea), their situation has not improved after the Japanese occupiers were driven away. No wonder the farmers in North Korea do not want this situation in South Korea to be extended to North Korea.
    As a result of the establishment of the people's democratic regime in North Korea, large-scale industrial enterprises that previously mostly belonged to Japanese occupiers were transferred to the new state, an eight-hour working day was established, and economic conditions were created in which male and female workers could work and receive wages without fear of unemployment and starvation. While North Korea is creating increasingly favorable conditions to improve the lives of farmers, workers, and intellectuals, the situation of the working people in South Korea remains the same as before.
    As long as the Lee Seung-man regime in South Korea continues to exist, the residents of South Korea have no hope of improving their lives.
    Under the people's democratic regime in North Korea, large-scale measures have been taken to develop culture: many primary and secondary schools have been opened; fifteen higher education institutions have been established, which did not exist at all during the Japanese occupation. At the same time, in South Korea, the Lee Seung-man regime has not taken any significant measures to benefit the people in terms of either economy or culture.
    All this shows why the Democratic People's Republic of Korea is so resolutely and enthusiastically defending all these achievements and resisting foreign aggression. At the same time, the above facts prove that it is impossible to force the residents of North Korea to give up the achievements of the people's democratic regime. Any attempt to extend the South Korean regime to North Korea will inevitably be resolutely rejected. Where can the Korean people find a way out of this predicament? A way out can be found, that is, to unify Korea on a democratic basis. For this purpose, it is necessary to establish an all-Korean commission composed of representatives from North and South Korea selected by the Supreme People's Assembly of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the National Assembly of the Republic of Korea, respectively, and to involve major democratic social organizations from North and South Korea in the commission. If the Geneva Conference can help reach an agreement so that North and South Korea can seek a solution based on conditions that allow democracy and freedom—including the main democratic achievements of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea—to be maintained, while acknowledging the need to consider the characteristics of the situation in South Korea, then such an agreement would be in line with the interests of the Korean people and the wishes of the people of other countries for peace and democratic reform.
    Participants in the Geneva Conference cannot forget these facts, such as the statement of Kim Seong-su, Vice President of South Korea. He criticized President Lee Seung-man and his government for fighting for power and profit, and for taking tyrannical police measures against the National Assembly. He said when he resigned on May 30, 1952: "It is a shame to see my name on the list of the bureaucratic, dictatorial, and corrupt Lee Seung-man government." Many facts can be cited from the reports of the UN commissions on Korea and from many reports in non-communist newspapers of various countries to prove what Kim Seong-su said and what another former South Korean Vice President Lee Shi-young and many others said. They said that Lee Seung-man's South Korean regime is an anti-people, terrorist, and corrupt regime. It is absurd that someone is trying to impose this semi-fascist regime on the residents of North Korea who have already seen genuine democratic reforms, the development of national culture, and the freedom and happiness of the people! It is quite obvious that this conspiracy cannot be realized and will inevitably be resolutely condemned by all true defenders of peace and democracy.
      III. The Korean Question and the Peoples of Asian Countries
    The Geneva Conference's discussion on the Korean issue has attracted the attention of people from all countries. This primarily refers to the peoples of Asian countries.
    It is a fact that until recently, Korea was under the colonial oppression of Japanese occupiers for nearly forty years. It is also a fact that Korea can no longer be regarded as the object of the policies of foreign countries that are accustomed to ruling colonies and establishing colonial systems. The Korean people, like the people of many other Asian countries, have embarked on the broad road of democratic development. Only those who cannot understand the historic changes taking place in Asia will think that the people's democratic system in North Korea is imposed by external forces. Only such people cannot see that this new socio-political system is actively supported by the Korean people. This can also be seen from the fact that those who helped Korean democrats establish a new social system in North Korea have been warmly loved and resolutely trusted by the broad masses of the Korean people. The situation in South Korea is completely opposite. There, the decadent and anti-people Lee Seung-man traitorous regime uses foreign bayonets as its main pillar. It is understandable that the Lee Seung-man regime hopes that foreign troops will stay in South Korea as long as possible. It is also understandable that it opposes the proposal to quickly withdraw foreign troops from Korea.
    Everyone knows that whether the Korean issue can be resolved in the spirit of establishing peace and democracy now depends primarily on the attitude of the United States. If the US policy on the Korean issue continues to be based on the military plans of some generals who do not understand the urgent demands of Asian countries for democratic reform, this policy will not help resolve the Korean issue and will inevitably end in bankruptcy. This policy cannot find a foothold in Asian countries where the social development situation has changed.
    The policy that the United States has been pursuing on the Korean issue is only one of the manifestations of the main political direction of the US ruling group that stubbornly adheres to Asian countries. The attitude of these Americans towards the People's Republic of China is particularly illustrative of this.
    Although the genuine people's forces have achieved victory—and the final victory—in China and established the People's Republic of China in the autumn of 1949, the United States has adopted a hostile policy towards China and the Chinese people. What can be the result of adopting such an aggressive policy towards a country with more than 500 million people, especially with the increasing awareness and enthusiasm of the Chinese people and their selfless determination to defend their rights?
    The United States took advantage of the Korean War to seize Chinese territory—Taiwan Island, and openly prepared to use the Chiang Kai-shek bandit gang entrenched in Taiwan to attack the Chinese mainland. Interestingly, so much has been said about the rights of the people at the Geneva Conference, but no one except the sincere friends of the People's Republic of China has dared to say a word against the occupation of Taiwan. On the contrary, we have heard here endless speeches full of unconvincing and desperate support for the United States.
    The US aggressive bloc has only been able to obstruct the People's Republic of China from restoring its legitimate seat in the United Nations for nearly five years by means of exerting crude pressure on the majority of member states of the United Nations. Although no honest or independent person with democratic beliefs believes that this action of the United States is legal or has any reason, it still did so. But, interestingly, a sense of civic responsibility and the minimum sense of justice have not been able to prompt any member state of the United Nations speaking here to say: It is now time to end this abnormal and shameful situation.
    Given the attitude taken towards the People's Republic of China, what would the people of other Asian countries who are striving to defend their rights think about the policies of the United States and those countries that support the United States? The Asian people have finally stood up to resolutely defend their rights, and in some countries, many people are very unhappy about this fact. But it should now be understood that no policy based on "strength positions" can turn back the wheels of history. The Asian people, who account for more than half of the world's population, have embarked on a new road, and no force or authority can stop the new and genuine democratic development of the Asian people—and not just the Asian people.
    Naturally, we know that there are now people planning a plan aimed at establishing a new military bloc against the people of Southeast Asia. The ruling groups of some countries, led by the United States, are currently working hard on this activity. This new aggressive bloc aimed at opposing the Asian people has not yet been finally put together. However, general meetings are being held in Singapore and other places with the participation of military personnel from the United States, the United Kingdom, France, and Australia, and it is possible to drag some Asian vassal states into this bloc. However, this plan has already received a negative evaluation among a wide range of international people. The main purpose of this military plan is to maintain and perpetuate the colonial system by all means and to suppress people who demand national freedom and independence. These plans reflect the aggressive intentions of the ruling groups of some countries, but they violate the interests of peace and the interests of the national liberation of the oppressed people.
    On the Korean issue, as on all other issues of international significance, the Soviet Union is upholding the interests of peace and the interests of the free development of all peoples. While the ruling groups of the United States and certain other countries are striving to establish military blocs in Europe and Asia, the Soviet Union is upholding the interests of collective security of all peoples, and there is no need to organize military blocs of mutually hostile countries to establish this collective security. This policy of the Soviet Union proceeds from the interest of defending and consolidating world peace.
    Everyone knows that various measures are now being taken to establish a new military bloc of Western European countries that relies on the re-militarization of West Germany. The purpose of this plan is none other than to prepare a new war in Europe according to the will of the imperialist aggressive bloc.
    The Soviet Union has constantly warned of the dangers of this aggressive plan, and the Soviet Union has opposed and continues to oppose the establishment of mutually opposed military blocs in Europe, and advocates that all European countries, regardless of their social system, work together to guarantee the collective security of all European countries. The Soviet Union's proposal to conclude a "Pan-European Treaty on Guaranteeing Collective Security in Europe" is for this purpose.
    Now we see that for Asian countries, there are also people planning to establish new military blocs by countries that are trying to maintain the colonial system and hinder the national liberation movement of the Asian people. This plan is not in line with the interests of peace and will not be supported by the people of all countries. The formulation of this plan is due to the fact that non-Asian countries want to maintain outdated privileges in Asia, and the people of Asian countries are now unwilling to tolerate the existence of these privileges.
    Another new road has unfolded before the Asian people. This is also evidenced by the proposal put forward by Premier Zhou Enlai of the People's Republic of China at this conference that the people of Asian countries work together to maintain peace in Asia.
    The Soviet Union fully supports this desire to maintain the collective security of the people of Asian countries, just as it is working to reach an agreement on the issue of collective security of all European countries.
    Millions of people are expecting the Geneva Conference to make an important contribution to the cause of consolidating world peace. The Geneva Conference should do everything possible to realize this expectation.

Xinhua News Agency, Geneva, 12th



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 在日内瓦会议五月十一日会议上  莫洛托夫关于朝鲜问题的发言

1954-05-13
第1版()
专栏：

    在日内瓦会议五月十一日会议上
    莫洛托夫关于朝鲜问题的发言主席先生，各位代表先生：
    在本会议上关于朝鲜问题的讨论表明，对于这个问题的解决办法有着相当的分歧的意见。
      朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的代表已经在这里提出了关于恢复朝鲜统一、使之成为独立、民主的国家的建议。这些建议得到了中华人民共和国和苏联的支持。这些建议是以这样的主张为基础的，这就是：恢复朝鲜统一，首先是朝鲜人自己的事情，是朝鲜人民的事情。根据这个观点，任何想把朝鲜人民所不能接受的关于朝鲜国家的政治和社会制度的解决办法强加于他们身上的企图，都遭到拒绝。不论人们在这方面说些什么，但是苏联政府有充分理由可以说，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的这种立场是符合民主原则的，同时也是符合朝鲜人民的根本利益和民族权利的。
    在这个会议上也出现了关于朝鲜问题的另一种立场。这种立场就是把联合国大会在一九五零年十月七日当朝鲜战争正紧张的时候通过的非法决议强加于朝鲜人民身上。联合国大会不顾苏联和其他许多联合国会员国的抗议而通过的这项决议，企图支持旨在不仅把南朝鲜并且也把北朝鲜放到美国武装部队的实际控制之下的侵略计划。根据联合国大会的这项决议，成立了“联合国朝鲜统一复兴委员会”。同时，还提出了不仅在南朝鲜而且在“全朝鲜”保证所谓“情况的稳定”的任务，这就是企图对整个朝鲜实行军事占领和为美国在远东的扩大侵略辩护。朝鲜民主主义人民共和国政府坚决反对以侵略北朝鲜为目的的这个非法决议。因而，现在在这里的发言中又有人主张实行这一非法的决议，这不过是企图以联合国的旗帜来掩饰侵略国家对于朝鲜的掠夺性计划而已。那些在日内瓦会议上坚持实行联合国大会这一非法决议的人，是想在这谈判中得到他们在三年的朝鲜战争中用武力所得不到的东西。
      一、朝鲜问题和联合国
    由于这一切，必须特别谈一谈联合国在朝鲜事件中所扮演的角色。尤其因为在这个会议上，关于朝鲜事件的人所共知的事实还继续在这里被人歪曲，这就更有这种必要。
    实际上，联合国组织从来没有处于它在朝鲜事件这个时期中如此屈辱的地位。事实表明：这次美国在朝鲜利用联合国的旗帜来达到它自己的目的，这种目的是和这个国际组织的利益、权利和目的毫无共同之处的。我们既然在日内瓦会议上讨论朝鲜问题，就应当回溯一下第二次世界大战结束后朝鲜事件发展的经过。
    一九四五年夏，根据参加反对日本军国主义的战争的盟国间的协议，苏联军队开入了三八线以北的朝鲜领土，而美国军队开入了三八线以南的朝鲜领土。他们的任务是：接受在此以前已被苏军在满洲击溃的日本军队的投降，从而帮助朝鲜人民摆脱近四十年的日本占领。很自然，由于这种情况，将北朝鲜和南朝鲜统一为一个单一的民主国家的条件问题就有了特别的重要性。
    早在一九四五年十二月举行的美国、英国、苏联三国外长莫斯科会议上，就已经提出了统一朝鲜的问题。美国政府当时所提出的关于朝鲜的计划立刻就证明：美国那时就是对重建一个独立的朝鲜国家的问题是不关心的。当时美国建议由四国（美国、英国、中国和苏联）在朝鲜建立为期五年到十年的托管制度，并规定由四国组成其特别机构来管理整个朝鲜。苏联当时反对这一计划。
    由于苏联的坚持，莫斯科会议于一九四五年十二月二十七日通过了下列主要决议：“为重建朝鲜成一独立国家，创造各种依据民主原则发展朝鲜之条件，及尽速清除日本在朝鲜长期统治之恶果起见，特设立一临时朝鲜民主政府，该政府须采取各种必要步骤，以发展朝鲜之工业、运输、农业及朝鲜人民之民族文化。”
    为了实际执行莫斯科会议的决议（后来中国政府也加入了这项决议），由驻朝鲜的苏军司令部和美军司令部的代表组成的苏美联合委员会成立了。
    美国政府虽然在关于组成临时朝鲜民主政府的协议上签了字，但它没有遵循可以保证这一决议实现的途径行事。苏美联合委员会在一九四六年和一九四七年中，曾在汉城开过几次会议，讨论这个问题。但是，没有能达成任何协议。美国代表实际上是竭力抹煞南北朝鲜民主组织在联合委员会中的谘询的作用的。美国代表在南朝鲜所依靠的是一些脱离人民、主张压制民主愿望的狭隘的反动集团。这些集团被利用来阻挠采取关于成立临时朝鲜民主政府的任何决定。由于美国代表采取了这种立场，苏美联合委员会未能在成立临时朝鲜民主政府问题上通过任何决议。
    从这个时候起，美国政府就开始企图利用联合国的旗帜，来使朝鲜的事件按照美国政府所希望的方向发展。这时，美国已不再顾及有美国外交部长
  （国务卿）签字的莫斯科会议的决议了。同时也不再考虑，朝鲜问题是和战争后果直接有关的问题，根据联合国宪章第一百零七条，这个问题是不在联合国职权范围之内的。
    在一九四七年到一九四九年的期间，美国驻联合国代表千方百计地想利用这个国际组织以达到自己的目的。尽管苏联和其他若干国家提出抗议，说明在联合国中讨论朝鲜问题是非法的，他们仍强迫联合国大会讨论朝鲜问题。这样，就开始了美国为非法干涉朝鲜事务而利用联合国旗帜的第一阶段。在这种情况下，就采取了两种显然不能容许的措施。
    根据联合国大会决议建立的朝鲜委员会实际上不得不确认，在南朝鲜存在着反民主的、腐败的和恐怖的李承晚政权。但是，这个委员会却同时充当了这个反人民的政权的保护人。联合国朝鲜委员会甚至还在南朝鲜“议会选举”的戏剧中充当监督人的角色，虽然这种选举简直是警察对朝鲜人民的权利以及起码的民主标准的侮辱。另一方面，这个委员会还企图将其活动扩大到北朝鲜去。这就是企图把反人民的南朝鲜政权扩大到整个朝鲜。但是，所有这些企图都遭到了北朝鲜居民和朝鲜民主主义人民共和国政府的坚决的反对。
    和联合国组织企图干涉北朝鲜内政的同时，李承晚开始公开威胁要对北朝鲜发动战争。例如，一九四九年九月，李承晚致美国奥利伏教授的一封信中说：“现在是采取进攻性的步骤、并团结北朝鲜共军中效忠于我们的那一部分人以便将其余的一部分歼灭的心理上最有利的时机。”一九四九年十二月三十日，李承晚公开说：在新的一年（即一九五零年），他所抱定的目的是夺取北朝鲜。他当时说：“在新的一年中，由于国际情势的变化，我们必须通过我们自己的努力来把南北朝鲜重新统一起来。”李承晚集团就这样在美国的庇护下准备了朝鲜的战争。
    外力强加在朝鲜头上的战争，于一九五零年六月爆发了。这场战争变成了三年的美国军事干涉。他们竭力利用联合国旗帜来掩盖这个战争。
    这就开始了干涉的第二阶段，就是美国利用联合国旗帜对朝鲜事务，更准确地说，对朝鲜战争进行非法的而且公开的侵略干涉。
    实际情况从下述事实中就可以看出。
    一九五零年六月二十七日，杜鲁门总统宣布，他已命令美国武装部队参加反对北朝鲜的战争。此外，美国驻在远东的舰队还奉命“阻止对福摩萨
  （台湾）的任何攻击”。这就意味着实际上占领了中国的台湾岛。这就是说，美国政府从准备侵略的政策转向直接的侵略行动，并开始不加掩饰地干涉朝鲜和中国的事务了。只是在杜鲁门总统发动美国对朝鲜的侵略的命令发出之后，安全理事会才在六月二十七日召开会议，并通过了安全理事会要求联合国各会员国参加这一战争的决议，而且把这种行动说成是对南朝鲜政权的援助。安全理事会六月二十七日的决议和较早两天六月二十五日的决议，以及安全理事会一九五零年七月间的决议都严重地破坏了联合国宪章，因而都是非法的。这些决议不能具有法律效力，因为安全理事会在通过这些决议时有苏联和中华人民共和国两个常任理事国的代表缺席。而且，按照联合国宪章的规定，只有在安全理事会多数理事国表示同意并且在这些多数理事国之中必须有安全理事会的五个常任理事国的情况之下，安全理事会关于战争与和平问题的决议才能具有法律效力。在这一场合具有特别意义的是：在安全理事会中一个与朝鲜战争有直接利害关系的中国的代表缺席。而国民党代表之参与采取上述决议，只能加强这些决议的非法性。
    有人在这里引用安全理事会的这些决议，为若干国家参加朝鲜战争的行为辩护。但是安全理事会的这些非法的决议不能认为是联合国组织的决议。因此，联合国的旗帜只是被用来作为一些国家参加朝鲜战争的假借的名义。安全理事会破坏联合国宪章这样做法，是因为美国侵略集团需要这样一种假借的名义。
    在美国官方人物随后发表的不少声明中透露了美国参加朝鲜战争的真正原因。著名的美国将军范佛里特于一九五二年一月坦白地说：总要有那么一个朝鲜，不是在这里，就是在世界上的其他地方。他替美国参加朝鲜战争的行为辩护说，朝鲜战争造成的局势使美国的工厂现在又可以制造数量日益增加的军火了。十分显然，朝鲜战争有助于推行军备竞赛政策，而这一点正完全合乎美国侵略集团的心意。在一九五零年到一九五三年并直到朝鲜停战协定签订以前的这段期间，联合国组织就朝鲜问题通过了若干决议。自从一九五零年八月苏联重新出席了安全理事会的会议以来，再不可能用安全理事会的旗帜来遮掩美国对朝鲜的侵略行为了。从那时起，联合国大会就被用来作掩盖，这就大大地破坏了联合国大会的国际威信。
    这里应该提一下，安全理事会和联合国大会的所有这些决议都是在没有考虑到朝鲜人民的利益和没有朝鲜人民的代表参加讨论这些决议的情况下通过的。说出这一点就够了：在联合国考虑朝鲜问题时，从来没有听取过一次朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的代表的意见。
    参加反对北朝鲜的战争的，除南朝鲜外，共有十六国家。其中包括美国、英国、法国、比利时、荷兰、加拿大、澳大利亚、新西兰、南非联邦、土耳其、哥伦比亚、希腊、卢森堡、泰国、菲律宾、阿比西尼亚。把这些国家列举出来就可以看出：上述参加战争的大多数国家都是拥有殖民地或主张维持殖民制度的国家。因此，几乎没有亚洲国家参加这一战争，并不是偶然的。例如，英联邦中的亚洲国家就没有一个愿意参加战争。至于终究参加了这一战争的个别亚洲国家，那不难看出，这些国家都是那些实际上现在仍未得到最低限度的行动的独立性、或受到侵略性的大国的束缚的国家。事实表明，侵入北朝鲜领土的军队只不过是在联合国的名义下的军队。事实上，在参加侵略北朝鲜的战争的外国军队中，至少有十分之九是美国军队。其他十五国的军队总共最多不过占参加朝鲜战争的外国军队的十分之一。它们的参加只是作为美国侵略朝鲜的掩饰。由此也可以看出，究竟谁应当对这种罄竹难书的、空前残酷、野蛮和非人道的战争行为负主要责任。然而，这也并不就减轻了那些参加朝鲜冒险的其他国家的责任。
    也不能忽视朝鲜停战协定签订后所发生的事实。大家知道，朝鲜停战协定签订后，美国和南朝鲜紧接着就开始了关于签订军事条约的谈判。这一条约于一九五三年十月一日签字，名叫“美韩共同防御条约”。但是谁都知道，这一军事条约的意图不是为了保证南朝鲜和美国的“共同防御”，而是为了与此完全相反的目的。
    美国侵略集团想用这个条约为自己保证一个军事跳板，以便进一步威胁北朝鲜和中华人民共和国。这个条约是目前南北朝鲜统一道路上的主要障碍之一。
    美国和南朝鲜缔结“共同防御”条约时，已不再想拿联合国的旗子来遮掩了。这一次，他们用了这样一个便于将来在他们认为宜于在朝鲜半岛发动新的侵略战争的时候更能任所欲为的办法。
    根据朝鲜战争的一些事实，关于联合国能够作出什么样的结论呢？结论是明确的。
    由于联合国安全理事会和联合国大会所采取的许多非法的行动，联合国成了在朝鲜作战的一方。事实上，联合国的旗帜在那里只是被用来遮掩美国的侵略。在全世界人民眼中，联合国成为交战一方，这就大大降低了这个国际组织的威望。在这种情况下，联合国已经使它自己丧失了作为一个不偏不倚的国际组织而进行活动的能力，不再能够在解决朝鲜问题中客观地尽其职责了。
    二、日内瓦会议的任务
    大家知道，朝鲜停战是由于朝鲜民主主义人民共和国和中华人民共和国政府的主动而达成的。这种主动得到苏联的积极支持。
    然而联合国甚至在停战协定签订后，由于受到美国及某些其他国家的压力，在执行停战协定条款方面显得无能为力。虽然，停战协定中已达成了召开政治会议以解决朝鲜问题的协议，联合国大会仍不能保证这一会议的召开，因为它的关于这一问题的决议是不符合停战协定的。大家也知道，朝中战俘自由返回祖国的问题直到现在还没有根据停战协定予以解决。如果采纳中华人民共和国就这一问题提出的建议，那就符合相应的国际协定的要求。
    只是法国、英国、美国、苏联四国外长会议在二月十八日发表了柏林会议公报，才有可能召开日内瓦会议来讨论解决朝鲜问题。苏联代表团完全同意周恩来总理的声明，就是解决朝鲜问题和印度支那问题的日内瓦会议和联合国无关。这个会议是在联合国的范畴之外举行的，因而它不受联合国大会任何决议的约束。日内瓦会议是为下面两个问题而召开的：和平解决朝鲜问题和恢复印度支那和平问题。日内瓦会议的特点就是这样一个无可置辩的事实：在这两个问题上都参加讨论的只有五个国家，即法国、英国、美国、中华人民共和国和苏联。这就说明这五个国家对解决上列两项重大问题负有特殊的责任。其他出席日内瓦会议的国家仅仅参加讨论这两个问题中的一个，或是朝鲜问题，或是印度支那问题，而这并不降低它们参加讨论相应问题的作用。
    因此，美国代表团企图不计及法国、英国、美国、中华人民共和国和苏联在日内瓦会议上负有特殊责任这样一种存在的局面，这是没有根据的。这种企图之没有根据从下列事实也可以看出来，就是联合国宪章也规定：作为安全理事会常任理事国的五大国，对解决对巩固和平和国际安全有重大意义的国际问题负有特殊的责任。
    在这个会议上，有些代表团企图把事情说成好像日内瓦会议必须本着履行一九五零年十月七日的、即美国在朝鲜的侵略最紧张的时候联合国大会就朝鲜问题所通过的决议这个原则行事。
    但是，他们对联合国大会这一决议的用意何在，却缄口不言。而这一决议的非法性，我在上面已经指出来了。
    为了这个目的，根据联合国大会一九五零年十月七日的决议，由若干国家的代表组成了一个新的联合国委员会，参加这个委员会的大多数国家参加了美国对朝鲜的侵略。该委员会的组成是个证明。该委员会的七个委员中澳大利亚、荷兰、土耳其、泰国和菲律宾五国有军队和美国军队一起侵入北朝鲜领土。该委员会被委托“采取适当的步骤以保证全朝鲜情况的稳定”，包括“举行选举”。联合国大会的这个决议公开指出，该委员会将在南朝鲜和北朝鲜依靠“联合国武装部队”。在这里发言的大多数代表们所坚持要执行的这个联合国大会的决议的目的就是：用军事占领的办法，把南朝鲜的李承晚政权强加于全朝鲜。
    大家知道，他们使用武力进行了三年侵略战争而没有达到这个目的。既然不能用武力强迫朝鲜人民接受李承晚政权，那么在日内瓦谈判中也是不能达到这个目的的，这难道还不明白吗？无论如何，在日内瓦会议上讨论朝鲜问题这件事本身，就该使那些装作不懂这一点的人相信这一点。
    然而，在日内瓦会议上重建朝鲜统一与和平解决整个朝鲜问题的另外一个方案提出来了。这个方案是朝鲜民主主义人民共和国提出的。
    朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的建议的实质是什么呢？
    苏联代表团认为有必要提请日内瓦会议注意朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的方案的主要方面，这个方案规定实现三项主要建议。
    第一，这个方案规定，必须在全朝鲜居民表示自由意志的条件下，举行总的选举。
    这个方案规定，应当让朝鲜人自己用北朝鲜和南朝鲜协议的方法来解决为普选而组织一个适当的全朝鲜委员会的问题，这个委员会由朝鲜双方代表组成。
    第二，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的方案规定在一定时限内自朝鲜撤出所有的外国军队。根据这个方案，须在六个月内撤出。不过，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国外务相南日已经说过，关于从朝鲜撤退外国军队的期限的问题，是可以研究并进行适当协商的。关于在全朝鲜举行自由选举前自朝鲜撤出外国军队这一建议的合理性，是极其明显的。如果在不久前还参加战争的外国军队留在朝鲜，自然不可能保证朝鲜人民在选举全朝鲜议会——这个议会将建立统一的朝鲜的民主政府——时充分自由地表达自己的意志。由此可见，应当在举行全朝鲜选举以前撤退外国军队。为了使全朝鲜选举不致拖延，应当为撤军确定尽可能短的期限。
    第三，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的方案中并规定，对维护远东和平特别关心的国家有必要保证朝鲜将来的和平发展。各国之间达成这样一个协议，对朝鲜人民具有重大意义。这个协议应当防止在朝鲜发动新战争的一切阴谋。既然这里的所有的会议参加者都表示愿意保证朝鲜今后的和平发展，要达成上述协议，应当不至于有什么不可克服的障碍。苏联政府准备和其他国家共同完成这一任务，并准备在保证朝鲜的和平发展方面承担相应的义务。
    这样，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的方案就为最后解决朝鲜问题开辟了明确的、广阔的前途。它保证在民主基础上恢复独立的朝鲜国家的统一，消除外国对朝鲜内政的任何压力，同时也为在稳固和持久的和平环境下把朝鲜统一成为一个独立、民主的国家确立了外部安全条件。
    在朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的建议中，最受激烈反对的是：建立全朝鲜委员会以筹备与举行朝鲜国民议会的全朝鲜自由选举、并采取紧急措施促使南北朝鲜之间的经济及文化的接近的建议。他们争辩说，这样一个由南北朝鲜的代表组成的全朝鲜委员会不能通过双方协议来解决它受托处理的问题。可是，否定了这种协议的必要性，就是连在民主基础上统一南北朝鲜的可能性也否定了，也就是企图把一方的意志强加于另一方。
    朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的居民在捍卫他们的民主的成就中进行了英勇的斗争并作了巨大的牺牲。谁能相信，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国能被强迫放弃自己的权利和民主果实呢？如果北朝鲜从属于目前的南朝鲜政权，放弃它的权利和民主成就就是不可避免的事情。那么，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国能够对外国的侵略和南朝鲜政权进行这样忘我牺牲的斗争，又作何解释呢？
    关于这一点有一些重要的理由。
    大家知道，农民占朝鲜居民的大部分。朝鲜一从日本殖民者的枷锁下获得解放以后，朝鲜北部的农民立刻就得到了前所未有的改善生活、改善物质文化水平的机会。以前日本地主和他们的朝鲜走狗们的土地转到了北朝鲜农民的手中。有七十多万无地和少地的农户，无偿地获得了一百余万公顷的土地。这些土地以前是属于那些压迫农民和使农民破产的日本殖民者和他们的帮凶的。
    朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的宪法巩固了北朝鲜农民的这一重大的民主成就。
    南朝鲜农民的处境就不同了。甚至根据联合国朝鲜委员会的材料也可以看出——在日本占领时期，南朝鲜百分之四十的土地是属于日本占领者的。根据另外的材料，他们拥有的土地还要多得多，朝鲜土地的三分之二是属于他们的。可是，在日本军国主义者被赶走以后，南朝鲜的这些土地却转入了统治集团的人们手中，他们大多数人以前是日本人的走狗。
    至于农民（这就是说南朝鲜的大多数贫农和中农），他们的情况在日本占领者被赶走后仍然没有改善。无怪北朝鲜的农民不希望南朝鲜的这种情况扩大到北朝鲜来。
    人民民主政权在北朝鲜的建立的结果是：以前大部分属于日本占领者的大规模工业企业转入了新的国家手中，确立了八小时工作制，创造了男女工人都可以不怕失业和挨饿、工作和工资有保障的经济条件。北朝鲜在创造越来越有利的条件以改善农民、工人和知识分子的生活的时候，南朝鲜劳动人民的情况却仍然和以前一样。
    只要南朝鲜李承晚政权继续存在，南朝鲜的居民是没有任何改善生活的希望的。
    在北朝鲜的人民民主政权下，在发展文化方面采取了大规模的措施：开办了许多初级学校和中等学校；建立了十五所高等学校，这是在日本占领时期根本没有的。而同时在南朝鲜，无论在经济方面或文化方面，李承晚政权根本没有采取任何有利于人民的重大措施。
    这一切都说明，朝鲜民主主义人民共和国为什么要这样坚决和热情地保卫所有这些成就，抵抗外来的侵略。同时，上述事实证明，要想强迫北朝鲜居民放弃人民民主政权的成就，是不可能的。任何想把南朝鲜政权扩展到北朝鲜的企图，是不能不遭到坚决的拒绝的。朝鲜人民从哪里找出摆脱这种处境的出路呢？出路是可以找到的，这就是在民主的基础上统一朝鲜，为此，必须建立一个由朝鲜民主主义人民共和国最高人民会议与大韩民国国会各自选出的北朝鲜和南朝鲜代表组成的全朝鲜委员会，并吸收北朝鲜和南朝鲜各大民主社会组织参加该委员会。如果日内瓦会议能有助于达成协议，使北朝鲜与南朝鲜根据那些使民主自由——包括朝鲜民主主义人民共和国的主要民主成就在内——得以保持、同时承认需要考虑南朝鲜情况的特点的条件求得解决的话，那么，这种协议就会符合朝鲜人民的利益，也符合其他国家人民对和平和民主改革的愿望。
    日内瓦会议的参加者不能忘记这些事实，如南朝鲜副总统金性洙的声明。他斥责李承晚总统及其政府争权夺利，并对国会采取横暴的警察措施。他在一九五二年五月三十日辞职时说：“在官僚的独裁的腐败的李承晚政府名单中看到自己的名字是一件可耻的事情。”可以从联合国各委员会关于朝鲜的报告中，从各国的非共产党报纸的许多报道中举出许多事实，来证明金性洙所说的话和另一个南朝鲜前副总统李始荣及其他许多人说过的话。他们说，李承晚的南朝鲜政权是一个反人民的、恐怖的和贪污腐化的政权。居然有人企图将这种半法西斯政权强加在已经见过了真正的民主改革、民族文化的发展和人民的自由幸福的北朝鲜居民头上！十分明显，这种阴谋是不能实现的，而且一定会遭到所有的真正的和平与民主的保卫者的坚决斥责。
      三、朝鲜问题和亚洲各国人民
    日内瓦会议关于朝鲜问题的讨论吸引了各国人民的注意。这里首先指的是亚洲各国人民。
    在不久以前，朝鲜还是处于日本占领者的殖民压迫底下，这种殖民压迫延续了将近四十年之久，这是事实。同时再也不能把朝鲜看作是那些惯于统治殖民地和建立殖民制度的外国的政策的对象了，这也是事实。朝鲜人民和亚洲其他许多国家的人民一样，已经走上了民主发展的康庄大道，只有那些不能理解亚洲所发生的历史性变革的人，才会认为北朝鲜的人民民主制度是外力强加的，只有这种人才看不到这一新的社会政治制度是得到朝鲜人民的积极支持的。这一点由下面的事实也可以看出：那些帮助朝鲜民主分子在北朝鲜建立新社会制度的人，受到了广大朝鲜人民的热烈爱戴和坚决信任。南朝鲜的情况与此完全相反。在那里，腐朽透顶的反人民的李承晚卖国政权以外国的刺刀作为自己的主要支柱。李承晚政权希望外国军队在南朝鲜尽可能地长驻下去，这是可以理解的。它反对迅速撤退在朝鲜的外国军队的建议，这也是可以理解的。
    大家都知道，现在是否能根据建立和平与民主的精神来解决朝鲜问题，首先要看美国的立场如何，如果美国在朝鲜问题上的政策仍然继续以某些丝毫不理解亚洲各国迫切要求民主改革的将军们的军事计划为依据的话，这种政策是不会有助于朝鲜问题的解决、不会不以破产告终的。这种政策在社会发展的情况发生了变化的亚洲各国是找不到立足点的。
    美国在朝鲜问题上一直奉行的政策不过是美国统治集团死抱住不放的对亚洲各国的主要政治方针的表现之一。美国的这些人物对待中华人民共和国的态度特别说明了这一点。
    尽管真正的人民力量已经在中国取得了胜利——而且是最后的胜利——并在一九四九年秋天建立了中华人民共和国，但美国还是对中国、对中国人民采取了敌对的政策。对这样一个有五亿多人口的国家，特别是在中国人民群众的觉悟和积极性以及他们准备保卫自己权利的忘我决心日益加强的情况下，采取这种侵略性的政策能有什么结果呢？
    美国乘朝鲜战争的机会攫取了中国的领土——台湾岛，并公开地准备利用盘据台湾的蒋介石匪帮来进攻中国大陆。有趣的是，在日内瓦会议上谈了这样多关于人民权利的话，但是除了中华人民共和国的真诚的朋友以外，没有一个人敢于说出一个字来反对侵占台湾。相反的，我们在这里倒听到了滔滔不绝的演说，里面充满了不能令人信服的、拚命为美国捧场的话。
    美国侵略集团只是以对联合国的大多数会员国施加粗暴压力的手段，才能在将近五年的时期中阻挠中华人民共和国恢复它在联合国的合法地位。尽管没有一个具有民主信仰的正直或独立的人士认为美国的这种行动是合法的或是有一点点理由的，它还是这样做了。但是，有趣的是，公民责任感和起码的正义感竟没有能够促使任何一个在这里发言的联合国会员国说出：现在是结束这种反常的和可耻的情况的时候了。
    对中华人民共和国采取的态度既是如此，那么，努力保卫自己的权益的其他亚洲国家人民对于美国的政策以及那些支持美国的国家的政策会作怎样的想法呢？亚洲人民终于站起来坚决地捍卫自己的权益了，在有些国家里，有不少人对于这种事实很不高兴。但是现在应该明白：任何以“实力地位”为基础的政策，都不能扭转历史的车轮了。占全世界人口一半以上的亚洲人民已走上新的道路，没有一种力量或权威能够阻挡亚洲人民——而且不仅是亚洲人民——的新的真正的民主发展。
    自然，我们知道，目前有人正在策动一种目的在于建立一个反对东南亚人民的新军事集团的计划，以美国为首的某些国家的统治集团目前在辛辛苦苦地进行的正是这种活动。这个目的在于反对亚洲人民的新侵略集团还没有最后拼凑成功。但是，在新加坡和其他地方，正在举行有美国、英国、法国和澳大利亚的军事人员参加的将领会议，可能把某些亚洲的附属国家拖入这个集团。但是，在广泛的国际人士中，这个计划已经得了否定的评价。这个军事计划的主要目的是要用一切办法来维护和永远保持殖民制度，压制要求民族自由和独立的人民。这些计划反映了某些国家的统治集团的侵略意图，但它们是违反和平利益和被压迫人民的民族解放的利益的。
    在朝鲜问题上，正如在其他一切具有国际意义的问题上一样，苏联都是维护和平的利益和各国人民自由发展的利益的。美国和其他某些国家的统治集团竭力在欧洲和亚洲建立军事集团，苏联却在维护各国人民的集体安全的利益，而建立了这种集体安全就没有必要组织互相敌对的国家的军事集团了。苏联的这一政策是从保卫和巩固世界和平这一利益出发的。
    大家知道，现在有人正在采取各种措施来建立一个以西德重新军国主义化为依靠的西欧国家的新军事集团。这种计划的目的不是别的，只是要按照帝国主义侵略集团的意志在欧洲准备新战争。
    苏联不断地对这种侵略计划的危险发出警告，苏联过去和现在都一直反对在欧洲建立互相对立的军事集团，而主张欧洲所有的国家，不论其社会制度如何，共同努力来保障欧洲所有国家的集体安全。苏联建议缔结“保障欧洲集体安全的全欧条约”也就是为了这个目的。
    现在我们看到，对亚洲国家，也有人在策划由那些企图保持殖民制度、阻挠亚洲各国人民民族解放运动的国家建立新的军事集团。这种计划不符合和平的利益，是得不到各国人民的支持的。制订这种计划是由于有非亚洲国家想在亚洲维持已经过了时的特权，而亚洲各国人民现在已经不愿意容忍这种特权存在了。
    亚洲人民的面前已经展开了另外的、新的道路。中华人民共和国周恩来总理在这个会议上提出的主张亚洲各国人民共同努力以维护亚洲和平的建议也证明了这一点。
    苏联完全支持这种维护亚洲各国人民集体安全的愿望，正如它努力争取就欧洲各国集体安全问题达成协议一样。
    千百万人民都在期望日内瓦会议能对巩固世界和平的事业作出重要贡献。日内瓦会议应尽一切努力来实现这种期望。
                    （新华社日内瓦十二日电）                  
