### Major Battle Unfolds in Western Liaoning: Battlefield Extends from the East Bank of the Daling River in the West to the Banks of the Xun River in the East; Enemy Forces Employ Up to Seven Columns

[Special Dispatch from Shenyang, This Newspaper, 26th] The major decisive battle between the Northeast National Army and the main force of the bandits, which has been brewing for many days, has finally unfolded in western Liaoning. The battlefield stretches from the east bank of the Daling River in the west to the banks of the Liao River in the east. This vast area includes important cities such as Beizhen, Goubangzi, Heishan, Xinlitun, and Xinmin, and may extend to Tieling and Kaiyuan. The success or failure of the Northeast hinges on this one battle. The bandits have mobilized seven columns, numbered 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, and 10, along with the Mongolian Cavalry First Division, the Second Independent Division of Southern Liaoning, and an artillery brigade. The bandits recklessly hope to encircle the National Army's westward advance units, but a certain general on the front line immediately commanded the various units to implement a counter-encirclement, launching a fierce fight. The decisive battle has been going on for three days, with the first two days being a prelude. The 26th turned into a fierce battle. Initially, the bandits' 8th and 10th Columns enticed the National Army to penetrate deep into the Heishan area, while the 3rd and 6th Columns counterattacked from the Zhangwu area towards Xinlitun, and the 5th Column launched a flanking attack eastward from the Fuxin area, hoping to encircle the National Army. Their First Column was at Dahushan, hoping to cut off the National Army's connection with southern Liaoning, and the 4th Column had just crossed the Daling River from Jinzhou to participate in the decisive battle. The Mongolian cavalry and others were responsible for surprise attacks. The National Army, on the other hand, is fighting steadily, using "cat-and-mouse" tactics to strive for victory. There is fierce fighting in Zheng'anbao northeast of Beizhen, Sifangtai, Xiaonengwang north of Heishan, Songtun, Yangtun, Litun northwest of Heishan, and areas north of Goubangzi and Dahushan. In addition, the battle at Daheishan between Xinlitun and Xinmin is even more intense. The Air Force has been repeatedly dispatched to heavily bomb the bandit crowds, with even more planes flying back and forth on the 26th, causing heavy casualties to the bandits. Du Yuming is also constantly traveling back and forth to command the front and rear, and is in contact with Wei Lihuang. The bandit forces harassing the area between Panjin and Tieling are the bandits' Third Independent Division. On the evening of the 25th, they re-invaded Lianshishan Railway Station. Fierce fighting is ongoing on the 26th. In the areas east and southeast of Tieling, three independent divisions of bandits have infiltrated from the Changchun area. The National Army is encircling and suppressing them.

[Special Dispatch from Shenyang, This Newspaper, 25th] (Delayed) The Northeast National Army is developing according to plan, but recently it has placed greater emphasis on capturing the main force of the bandits. The bandits, on the other hand, are sniffing out loopholes in the National Army, hoping to strike at the National Army. A unit of the army corps advancing westward from Shenyang withdrew from Zhangwu on the 23rd to pursue the bandit crowds. Also, a small unit of the National Army that entered Heishan has also left the city again to pursue and suppress the bandits in the nearby area. Another unit of the National Army has come to encircle them, and there was fierce fighting on the 25th. More than 3,000 bandits in Fuxin fled eastward, attempting to counterattack Xinlitun. In addition, the bandits' Twelfth Column crossed the Liao River westward from Kaiyuan, also attempting to infiltrate the Xinlitun area. The National Army has strengthened its defenses in Xinlitun and Xinmin. The bandit independent divisions that went south from Changchun have now mostly arrived in Siping. Also: More than 1,000 bandits from Xin Kaiyuan sneaked into Liaohaitun, Tukouzi, and the area north of Daxunhe, 10 kilometers south of Tieling, on the morning of the 24th, but were repelled by the defending troops. The bandits south of Tieling were repelled and are now entrenched in the mountainous area east of that area, with a tendency to make a comeback. The bandits' intention is to cut off traffic between Tieling and Shenyang. A large army has rushed to encircle and suppress them on the 25th.

### Rumors of Zuoyi Flying to Zhangyuan for Inspection; Bandits Inflicting Sufferings in Sui Province Loiter Between Guisui and Baotou; National Army Reinforcements are Hurrying to Advance

[Special Dispatch from Zhangjiakou, This Newspaper, 26th] Commander-in-Chief Fu Zuoyi flew to Zhangyuan on the 26th for inspection.

[Special Dispatch from Beiping, This Newspaper, 26th] Guisui News: The staff of the China Aviation Corporation stationed in Sui has withdrawn on the 23rd. Another report: More than 10,000 bandits who infiltrated Sa County divided their forces, with one unit crossing the river to infiltrate the Jungar Banner in Yimeng.

[Another Telegram] The bandits' 1st and 2nd Columns are loitering between Sui and Bao. The major battle has not yet begun. The National Army cavalry has been wedging into the bandit's rear in southern Sui for days. The National Army in Datong is also launching extensive attacks to coordinate the battles in the Sui area. According to the Suppression Headquarters: (1) The National Army's mobile suppression units have been active in the eastern and western areas of Liangcheng and Helingeer counties for days. On the 24th, Liangcheng County Magistrate Qiao Hankui led his team to surround the supply station and guard post of the bandits' First Column in Jiuguquan, Beishan, and Yuanbaodian north of Liangcheng, capturing more than 500 bandits and seizing a large amount of supplies. Another unit annihilated more than 300 bandits in Manhanshan. (2) The National Army in Datong has killed more than 400 bandits in Gushan, Lizao and other places north and south of Datong for days.

[Special Dispatch from Guisui, This Newspaper, 25th] The bandits' Third Corps, which advanced to the outskirts of Baotou on the 23rd, has not dared to enter the city in large numbers even after three days. On the 24th, only a small number of bandits entered the city, setting fire to and burning down several agency buildings. The bandits' Eighth Column, which is currently harassing the eastern and southern parts of Sui, is composed of mixed units such as the Sui-Mongolian Military Region's Jinbei Brigade and the Suidong Brigade, and their combat effectiveness is particularly weak. They are currently being mopped up by local teams. According to reliable information from the military, the eastern reinforcement has arrived in Taolin and Jining, and the southern route has crossed Youyu and Zuoyun. It is generally believed that the annihilation battle in Sui and Bao may begin in the near future between Sa County and Tuoketuo County. On the 25th, the morale of the citizens of Guisui was very good. Businesses have returned to their former state, and prices have shown a significant decline.

[Special Dispatch from Chengde, This Newspaper, 25th] Military News: Since the National Army in western Rehe launched its autumn mobile suppression campaign, the amount of grain harvested for grain protection work has reached five by the 24th.

### Pingbao Line to be Reopened; Southern Army Captures Dingxing

[Special Dispatch from Beiping, This Newspaper, 26th] Military News: The southern sweeping troops on the Pingbao Line have recaptured Dingxing and are currently repairing the crossing bridge at Beihe Bridge to continue south. The Pingbao Line will soon be reopened.

### Bandits Infiltrate and Capture Yingcheng in Central Hubei

[Special Dispatch from Hankou, This Newspaper, 26th] A group of bandits led by Liu in central Hubei and a unit of the Jianghan Independent Brigade infiltrated and captured Yingcheng on the evening of the 25th. The National Army on the southern section of the Pinghan Railway has reinforced and is encircling and suppressing them. It can be recaptured within days.

[Special Dispatch from Xuzhou, This Newspaper, 26th] The National Army on the border of Jiangsu and Anhui searched and suppressed the area southwest of Jiagou on the 26th, including Caijiji, Taowei, and Nanzhuang, killing and wounding more than 400 bandits.

### Fierce Fighting on the Outskirts of Xinxiang; Bandits Advance on Kaocheng

[Special Dispatch from Xuzhou, This Newspaper, 26th] Fierce fighting continues on the outskirts of Xinxiang. The battle for the bridgehead on the Yellow River is quiet. The bandits' Third Independent Brigade and the 13th and 14th Regiments advanced on Kaocheng on the evening of the 24th. Fierce fighting is currently underway. Also, units of Liu's bandits' 1st and 3rd Columns, totaling more than 5,000, advanced on Kaifeng from the north on the 24th and engaged in fierce fighting in the Nan Guan and railway station area. The National Army transferred to the area west of Lanfeng that evening.

### Bandits in Western Henan Flee South; Fierce Fighting in Western Tongbai Mountains; More Than 3,000 Bandits Killed and Wounded

[Central News Agency, Xinyang, 26th] The 2nd, 6th, and 10th Columns of Liu Bocheng's bandit forces in western Henan recently crossed the area between Deng County and Xinye and moved south. The National Army concentrated its superior forces and fiercely encircled and attacked them in the area near Xuejiaji, west of the Tongbai Mountains. The fierce fighting began the night before last and continued until this morning. We killed and wounded more than 3,000 bandits. The bandits were unable to resist and collapsed and retreated to the northwest. We are pursuing them.

### No Trace of Bandits South of Huanglong Mountain in Shaanxi

[Central News Agency, Xi'an, 26th] Since the National Army was stationed in Heyang and Chengcheng, it has dispatched teams to mop up the surrounding remnants of bandits for days. Only a few scattered bandits have been found. There is currently no trace of bandits south of Huanglong Mountain.

### President and Mrs. Chiang Donate Funds to Relieve Refugees in Beiping

[Central News Agency, Beiping, 26th] President Chiang and his wife are concerned about the difficult lives of the refugees in the city and have specially donated 2,000 gold yuan to subsidize winter relief expenses.

[Central News Agency, Beiping, 26th] President Chiang summoned Li Shoulien, Director of the Civil Affairs Department of Rehe Province, at his residence at 3:30 p.m. on the 26th and inquired about the political situation in Rehe Province.

### Fierce Battles Renewed on the Outskirts of Taiyuan; Bandit Army Launches Fierce Attacks and Flees Back with Heavy Casualties

[Central News Agency, Taiyuan, 26th] The offensive and defensive battles on the outskirts of Taiyuan, which had once subsided, became fierce again today. In order to cover up their recent disastrous defeat, the bandit invaders launched a fierce offensive from 4 p.m. on the 26th towards the strongholds in the mountainous area on the line from Zaoyuan, 15 li southeast of the city, to Niutuo, more than 10 li northeast of the city. The National Army is currently bravely resisting everywhere. According to those in charge of the military, the National Army has made meticulous deployments and will certainly inflict even more serious blows on the bandit invaders. (Another Telegram) Fierce fighting took place on the east mountain and southeast of the city of Taiyuan last night. The bandits who infiltrated and attacked the high ground east of Xiaoyaotou, more than 10 li east of the city, and Zaoyuan, 15 li southeast of the city, launched repeated attacks. After being severely suppressed by the National Army, the bandits fled back with heavy casualties.

[Central News Agency, Taiyuan, 26th] Zhang Yinhou, commander of the 5th Company of the 2nd Battalion of the 34th Regiment of the 14th Brigade of the 8th Column of the bandit forces, Zhang Richeng, commander of the 9th Company, and Li Zhenhua, a supplier of the 12th Brigade's Supply Department, and 105 others who laid down their weapons and surrendered to the government in the battles of Da Xiaowucun and Fenggeliang, after being reformed through education, regretted being deceived by the Mao bandits in the past and strayed onto the wrong path. They have jointly published an "Open Letter to All Soldiers of the Eighth Route Army," urging their former brothers to sincerely return and turn to the light.

### Supervisory Yuan's Three Committees Resolve to Submit a Corrective Proposal to the Executive Yuan; Urge Swift Cessation of Serious Economic Phenomena

[Central News Agency, Nanjing, 26th] The Economic Resources, Agriculture and Forestry, and Water Conservancy Committee, the Finance and Food Administration Committee, and the Internal Affairs and Land Administration Committee of the Control Yuan held a joint meeting on the morning of the 26th to review the current economic situation and resolved to list facts such as currency inflation, production reduction, hoarding of goods, loose credit, and soaring black market prices, and submit a corrective proposal to the Executive Yuan, urging it to quickly seek effective cessation of these serious phenomena. The text of the corrective proposal has been entrusted to five members, Zhang Jianzhong, Wu Dayu, Yuan Qinghui, Zhang Dinghua, and Tang Honglie, to draft. The content will be based on the corrective proposal proposed by Zhang Jianzhong in the joint meeting and will be supplemented by summarizing the opinions of the members who spoke at the meeting. The plan is to formally submit the proposal to the Executive Yuan before the 29th.

The joint meeting was chaired by Zhu Zongliang. More than 30 members attended, and the speakers were very enthusiastic, which fully reflected the Supervisory Committee's emphasis on the current economic situation. Zhang Jianzhong's original proposal pointed out that the price limit system has not been fully and thoroughly implemented, and the price of raw materials has risen above the selling price of finished products, resulting in a contraction in production. Therefore, he advocated abolishing the price limit and changing to negotiated prices. Zhang Dinghua, Yuan Qinghui, and others opposed negotiated prices, believing that prices would become even more uncontrollable after the price limit was lifted. Yuan Qinghui believed that the government should allocate a huge amount of foreign exchange to resell to manufacturers to purchase industrial raw materials, which would promote production and contract currency supply. Zhang Dinghua pointed out that raising the prices of state-owned enterprises and increasing tax rates would stimulate prices, and the government should consider it carefully. Wang Baoshi praised the concrete opinions put forward in the "Petition for the People" by seventeen professors in Beiping and advocated that prices should not be limited except for daily necessities.

### Legislative Yuan Discusses Measures to Eradicate Panic Buying; Decides to Submit Inquiries to the Executive Yuan; Amends Article 5 of the Criminal Code to Add "Opium Crimes"

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] The 14th meeting of the second session of the Legislative Yuan was held on the 26th. Vice President Chen Lifu chaired the meeting. The meeting began at 9:30 a.m. First, it passed 15 reporting items, and various government proposals were submitted to the relevant committees for review. Then, it began to discuss items: (1) The Foreign Affairs Committee reported on the examination of the Executive Yuan's consultation on the resolution of the U.S. Senate on the Sino-U.S. Commercial Treaty Protocol and requested review so as to order compliance. It was resolved to pass it according to the examination opinion. (Please refer to another article) (2) The Criminal Law Committee, together with the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Overseas Chinese Committee, reported on the examination and revision of Article 5 of the Criminal Code. Chen Guyuan and others believed that the Criminal Code should not be amended and advocated a re-examination. He engaged in a fierce debate with Jiang Yiping and others, the conveners of the Criminal Law Committee. However, after a vote, it was still passed according to the examination opinion. (3) Liao Weifan and others proposed to formulate the Gold Yuan Subsidiary Coin Regulations. It was resolved to submit it to the Financial and Legal Affairs Committee for joint examination. (4) Wang Zemin and others proposed to consult the Executive Yuan to strengthen local self-defense forces and expand the security teams and local mass self-defense forces in various provinces as soon as possible. It was resolved to submit it to the National Defense, Internal Affairs, and Local Autonomy Committees for joint examination. The meeting adjourned at 12:00. The meeting continued at 3:30 p.m. to continue discussing the bills. (5) The Economic and Financial Committee, together with the Social Affairs Committee, the Internal Affairs and Local Autonomy Committee, reported on the examination and revision of the draft Regulations on Punishing Violations of Price Limits and Negotiated Prices. It was resolved to pass the amendment according to the examination opinion. Since the original regulations were promulgated a long time ago, the current situation is different from the past, and there are many places that should be amended. The Yuan consulted the Executive Yuan to order the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs to prepare a revised draft separately and send it to the Yuan for deliberation. (6) Huang Tong and others proposed to develop state-owned and managed industries and commerce to control production, distribution, and supervision of people's work. Under the promotion of the entire set of plans, the principle of people's livelihood should be implemented. It was resolved to submit it to the Economic and Financial Affairs, Social Affairs, and Food Administration Committees for joint examination. (7) Liu Shidu and others proposed to amend the rules of procedure, add collective speaking methods, to fully express opinions, avoid repetition, and achieve the practical benefits of repeated debate. It was resolved to retain it. (8) Lei Yin and others proposed to amend the relevant examination regulations, improve the examination agency, and promote audit work. It was resolved to submit it to the Legal System, Budget, and Financial Committees for joint examination. Finally, two provisional motions were passed. One was proposed by Pei Caihuo and others, requesting that the Provincial and County Autonomy Regulations be passed during this session to comply with the spirit of constitutional government and benefit the suppression of rebellion and national construction. It was resolved to hand it over to the Internal Affairs and Local Autonomy Committee for attention. The other was proposed by Wen Shiyuan and others, proposing to consult the government to immediately formulate effective measures to eradicate panic buying and ensure that daily necessities are supplied in all places without shortage, and to quickly implement them to solve the current economic crisis. It was resolved to submit inquiries to the Executive Yuan in the name of the entire Yuan. The entire agenda was completed at 5:10 p.m., and the meeting was adjourned.

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] The Legislative Yuan passed an amendment to Article 5 of the Criminal Code at its regular meeting on the 26th, adding "opium crimes" as crimes to which extraterritorial jurisdiction applies. The revised articles are recorded below:

Revised Article 5 of the Criminal Code (Passed by the Legislative Yuan on October 26, 37th Year)

Article 5: This law applies to those who commit the following crimes outside the territory of the Republic of China: (1) Crimes of internal rebellion, (2) Crimes of foreign aggression, (3) Crimes of counterfeiting currency, (4) Crimes of counterfeiting negotiable securities under Articles 201 and 202, (5) Crimes of forging documents and seals under Articles 211 and 214, Articles 216 and 218, (6) Opium crimes, (7) Crimes of obstructing freedom under Article 296, (9) Crimes of piracy under Articles 333 and 334.

### Sino-U.S. Commercial Treaty Protocol; Provisions for the Protection of Translation Rights; Legislative Yuan Agrees to Retain

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] At the regular meeting of the Legislative Yuan on the 26th, the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously passed the examination report on the Executive Yuan's consultation on the resolution of the U.S. Senate regarding the Sino-U.S. Commercial Treaty Protocol, requesting review so as to order compliance. It agreed to retain the provisions related to the protection of translation rights in Item 5, Paragraph C of the Sino-U.S. Commercial Treaty Protocol. The government and the United States will mutually submit ratification instruments. The full text of the resolution is as follows: "The Sino-U.S. Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation signed in Nanjing on November 4, 35th year, has been resolved by the former Legislative Yuan on November 9 of the same year to be approved and has been approved by the former National Government on November 11. If the provisions of Item 5, Paragraph C of the Protocol attached to the treaty are suspended from taking effect in accordance with the U.S. reservation, the rights regarding literary and artistic works in the third sentence of Article 9 of the treaty shall still be interpreted in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Sino-U.S. Supplementary Treaty of Commerce and Navigation signed in Shanghai on October 8, 1903. This can be agreed to, and the government will exchange ratification instruments with the United States in accordance with this understanding. However, the purpose of literary and artistic works is to spread culture, and it is essential to enable people who need to use languages other than the original language of the work to read the translation of the work in their own language, which is beneficial to the effective spread of culture. Therefore, in the future, if both parties believe that it is necessary and prepare to negotiate to improve the relationship of copyright, the government should still conduct negotiations in accordance with the spirit of Article 11 of the Sino-U.S. Supplementary Treaty of Commerce and Navigation of 1903."

### Ministry of Finance Forms Supervisory Group to Supervise Tax Revenue in Various Regions
Selection of Directors for Each Region Decided

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] In order to supervise tax revenue in various regions, inspect local finances, and review the implementation of local financial measures, the Supervisory Committee of the Ministry of Finance decided at a meeting to organize a supervisory group to go to various regions for supervision. The country is divided into eight regions, and each region will have a supervisory group. Each group will have one director and three to five members. Representatives from the National Taxation Administration and the Local Finance Department will participate. The supervisory group is scheduled to depart at the end of this month. The supervision period is scheduled for two months. The directors of each region are listed below: (1) Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui Region: Yang Shoubiao, (2) Hunan, Hubei, and Jiangxi Region: Wu Xingzhou, (3) Guangdong and Fujian Region: Bao Chaoshi, (4) Sichuan and Kang Region: Liu Zhongyi, (5) Yunnan, Guizhou, and Guangxi Region: Yang Qingchun, (6) North China Region: He Weining, (7) Northwest Region: Bao Mengzhao, (8) Taiwan Region: Luo Shuwei.

### He Yingqin Returns to Nanjing Today
Yesterday Flew to Pingtung to Inspect the New Army

[Special Dispatch from Taipei, This Newspaper, 26th] He Yingqin, accompanied by Xiao Yisu and Sun Liren, flew to Pingtung by special plane at 9:30 a.m. on the 26th to inspect the new army. At 5 p.m., he returned to Taipei by the same plane and then went to Caoshan for rest. He is scheduled to fly back to the capital on the 27th.

### Tao Xisheng's Speech in Beiping: Government Decides to Order Raw Materials from Abroad; Plans Appropriate Measures to Regulate Funds

[Central News Agency, Beiping, 26th] Tao Xisheng, Deputy Minister of the Central Propaganda Department, came to Beiping a few days ago. A reporter interviewed Tao at the hotel on the 26th and asked for his opinion on the current economic problems. Tao said: What the Executive Yuan is promoting today is still the methods and supplementary methods promulgated by the 819 Financial and Economic Emergency Measures Order. It will continue to adhere to the policy of limited prices. People's daily necessities will be rationed in Beijing and Shanghai. It is actively planning for Beiping and Tianjin, and the replenishment of food will be supplemented by the existing flour rationing, so that there will be no shortage. Tao explained that the raw materials for Shanghai's industry are very abundant. Judging from the existing ones, there will be no shortage for at least three months. The government has allocated foreign exchange and encouraged private individuals to prepare their own foreign exchange to order raw materials from abroad, so that they can continue to supply general industries seven months later. The inventory of Shanghai's industrial finished products is extremely abundant. Trade associations from various places can obtain proof from the local government and approve wholesale sales as desired. Regarding the financial situation, Tao said: The best phenomenon in Shanghai since the implementation of controls has been the sharp increase in bank deposits and the reduction of interest rates, which makes it easier for general production businesses to turn around. Recently, interest rates in some places have risen, and funds in Shanghai have a tendency to flow westward. The government is planning appropriate measures to regulate them to ensure that this good phenomenon continues. When asked by the reporter whether the proposition of freezing deposits advocated by economists can be implemented, Tao said that as far as he knows, the symposium is a free exchange of opinions and there is no decision. As far as the news reports are concerned, the increase in bank deposits and the reduction of interest rates are conditions for the development of production businesses. The statement of freezing deposits does not meet the actual needs. Before 819, floating funds concentrated on speculation and hoarding, and the number of bank deposits was extremely small. After 819, banks began to use deposits for lending and returned to the normal track of their business. The government should protect them. Finally, the reporter asked whether the President had made any decisions on economic measures when he met with the presidents and professors of various universities in Beiping. Tao said: Every time the President comes to Beiping, he will frequently invite university presidents and professors to listen to their opinions on politics, economy, and education. This time is no exception. However, the formulation and implementation of economic policies are all matters of the Executive Yuan.

### Engineering Society; New President Elected; Shen Yi Elected President

[Central News Agency, Taipei, 26th] The General Association of Chinese Engineers re-elected the president, vice president, fund supervisor, and one-third of the directors whose terms have expired this afternoon. The results are: President Shen Yi, Vice Presidents Zhao Zukang and Qian Changzhao, Fund Supervisor Gu Yuxiu, Directors Mao Yisheng, Li Qiqing, Zhou Fengjiu, Tan Bingxun, Zhang Zhengxiang, Wu Bichi, Yang Jianchu, Nie Chuanru, and Wang Huzhen. (Engineers' Association News from the 5th edition)

### Yu Hanmou and Guan Linzheng Fly from Chongqing to Chengdu

[Central News Agency, Chengdu, 26th] Yu Hanmou, Commander-in-Chief of the Army, and Guan Linzheng, Deputy Commander-in-Chief and Principal of the Military Academy, flew from Chongqing to Chengdu this morning to inspect the Army education units in Chengdu. They will stay for several days.

### Rewarding Grain Merchants for Purchasing Grain from Abroad; Import Tax Will Be Waived; Third Phase of U.S. Aid Wheat Supplies the North

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] After Premier Weng returned to Nanjing, he was exceptionally busy all day on the 26th. Secretary-General Li Weiguo went to visit him in the morning. At about 8 o'clock, Weng visited Chen Bulei and talked for about two hours. At about 10 o'clock, he went to the Executive Yuan to handle official business. Then, he met with Xu Bangyou, Director of the Technical Department of the U.S. Aid Association. At 11:30, Finance Deputy Director Xu Baiyuan went to visit him to report on the financial situation and the recent situation of management work since Premier Weng left Nanjing. He resigned after half an hour. At noon, Weng hosted a banquet for Cleveland and Situ Limen, etc. At 2 p.m., he presided over the eighth joint symposium of the U.S. Aid Association and the U.S. Economic Cooperation Administration's China Branch. It is reported that Premier Weng is very concerned about enriching grain sources. In addition to the government allocating funds to purchase and store grain, he will also reward grain merchants for purchasing grain from abroad and provide them with convenience. All grain purchased by grain merchants abroad will be exempt from import tax when imported.

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] According to the Grain News Agency, in order to solve the grain shortage in the north and broaden the source of flour in the north, the Ministry of Food has decided to take the following actions: (1) Before the end of December, all the wheat in the third phase of U.S. aid will be supplied to the north, which is estimated to be able to maintain the people's food in major cities for three months. (2) The Ministry of Social Affairs has provided 30,000 bags of relief flour, which have been shipped to Qingdao. The remaining amount is still being shipped. (3) If the Joint Logistics Headquarters does not intend to purchase transshipment flour, it will be allocated to the north for use as soon as possible.

[Special Dispatch from Nanjing, This Newspaper, 26th] Zhang Lisheng, Deputy Prime Minister of the Executive Yuan, was previously sent to Beiping to supervise the economic control affairs. After two months, it has come to an end for the time being. He returned to Nanjing to report. After arriving in Shanghai from Beiping on the 25th, he took the Triumph train from Shanghai to Nanjing on the morning of the 25th. Due to the traffic obstruction on the Kehu Road, he stayed in Zhenjiang for a long time. He did not leave Zhenjiang until 11:35 p.m. and did not arrive in Nanjing until about 12 o'clock.

[Special Dispatch from Beiping, This Newspaper, 25th] Jiang Shuojie, Liu Dazhong, and Wu Jingchao, three professors, have postponed their trip to Nanjing. According to Jiang, he intends to submit a written proposal to the government first and then decide on his course of action based on the government's response to this opinion. The proposal is being drafted by Liu Dazhong.

### U.S. Aid Utilization Committee and ECA Mission: Eighth Joint Meeting, Report on Second Phase of U.S. Cotton Handling

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] The Executive Yuan's U.S. Aid Overuse Prevention Committee and the U.S. Economic Cooperation Administration (ECA) China Mission held their eighth joint symposium at 2:00 PM on the 26th at the Executive Yuan's No. 1 Official Residence, presided over by Premier Weng.  Participants from the U.S. Aid Committee included Yu Dawei, Wang Yunwu, Wang Shijie (represented by Dong Lin), Yan Jiagan, Shen Xirui, Li Gan, Xu Bangyou, Lin Shaotang, Xu Zongwei, Tao Lizhong, and others.  Grain Bureau Director Guan Jiyu and Yang Chuo'an, Director of the Emergency Grain Purchase and Storage Committee, were also invited to attend.  U.S. participants included Cleveland, Griffin, Stuteman, John Shen, Glenn, Crowe, Hurd, Cushman, Tauté, Belina, and Michael Mckinley, Counselor of the U.S. Embassy.  In addition to reporting and discussing general U.S. aid business, a detailed report was given on the second phase of cotton handling, as follows:  The eighth cotton subcommittee meeting resolved that customs procedures for the second phase of U.S. aid cotton are being expedited, and 50% will be allocated immediately, with the allocation principles remaining the same as in the first phase.  However, due to the severe cotton shortage in Tianjin and Qingdao, the U.S. ECA agreed to provide a sufficient allocation of the second phase of U.S. aid cotton to the yarn factories in Tianjin and Qingdao to prevent shortages.  The exchange ratios for various grades of U.S. cotton and per bale of cotton yarn for the second phase of U.S. aid cotton, as stipulated by the fifth cotton subcommittee meeting, are as follows: GM grade U.S. cotton 573.5 pounds, LM grade U.S. cotton 595 pounds, SM grade U.S. cotton 579.5 pounds, LM U.S. cotton 605 pounds, M grade U.S. cotton 583.5 pounds, and SGO grade U.S. cotton 626.5 pounds.  The meeting adjourned at 4:00 PM.

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th]  Following agreement between China and the United States on the allocation plan for the special U.S. aid industrial parts fund, utilization will commence soon, and arrangements for utilization are being designed.  White Company, the U.S. company participating in the design, has decided to send its Chief Engineer, Tarlin, to China.  Mr. Tarlin has already departed and is expected to arrive in Shanghai this weekend.  Premier Weng has designated Xu Bangyou, Director of the Technical Department of the U.S. Aid Committee, to be responsible for future liaison between China and the company.  Premier Weng also met with Mr. Xu on the morning of the 26th to inquire about the design matters related to the use of U.S. aid industrial parts.

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] Cleveland, Director of the China Program Office of the U.S. Economic Cooperation Administration, is about to return to the United States at the end of this month after inspecting U.S. aid operations in China.  At noon on the 26th, Premier Weng hosted a farewell banquet for him at the No. 1 Official Residence of the Executive Yuan, and invited Stuteman, Griffin, John Shen, Wang Yunwu, Yan Jiagan, Shen Xirui, and Li Gan to accompany him.  Mr. Cleveland attended the eighth joint symposium of the U.S. Aid Committee and the ECA Mission on the afternoon of the 26th and returned to Shanghai by special plane at 4:30 PM.

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] Yan Jiagan, Shen Peirui, Li Gan, and others arrived in Nanjing from Shanghai on the morning of the 26th to attend the eighth joint symposium of the U.S. Aid Committee, and returned to Shanghai by night train on the 26th.

[United Press, Washington, 25th] Republican Senator Malone stated on the 25th that he will depart on a world tour on November 10th, and during the tour, he also intends to investigate the use of U.S. aid by the Chinese government.

## Page 2

Editorial

### On the Petition for the People from Professors in Beiping

The professors of various universities in Beiping jointly submitted a letter to the President and Premier Weng, elaborating on the current economic difficulties and remedial measures. The full text was published in yesterday's newspaper. In summary, the main points of the opinion letter are two: (1) Strictly implementing rigid and universal price controls without supplementing them with necessary conditions and methods is deemed impossible to succeed; (2) The issuance of gold yuan exceeds actual needs and is not commensurate with existing materials, which naturally leads to price increases and black market phenomena. The current buying spree in various regions, the disconnection of goods and materials, the separation of production and sales, and the inability of goods to circulate between urban and rural areas are all deemed to be the products of the combination of the above two key points. These words are actually knowable to anyone with common sense, and the editorial of this newspaper has said them more than once. Now, after being said by the professors in Beiping, who have no direct relationship with the Shanghai market, it seems that it may also move Premier Weng, who bears the actual administrative responsibility.

Based on their views, the professors in Beiping put forward two important suggestions: (1) Reduce the scope of price controls, focusing on daily necessities for the people, while allowing other items to return to free trade and find their natural level: this is a proposal to amend the current price control measures. (2) The government should take out the gold, banknotes, and foreign exchange that have been redeemed and go abroad to purchase daily necessities, which will still be distributed to the public at the "August 19" price limit: this is a remedy for the current surplus of currency and lack of materials.

We believe that both of the above suggestions have sufficient reasons and necessity. Because according to reality, the implementation of price controls in various regions is obviously inconsistent. Some have already cancelled price controls and are trying out negotiated pricing, while some remote areas have not even implemented price controls at all. In cities with strict enforcement, because the scope is too wide, there are too many industries, and there are also various inherent unreasonable states, although the enforcement personnel are very hardworking and closely investigating, it is still impossible to avoid the existence of a part of the black market. In the era of the Textile Control Commission, the unified collection and purchase method was limited to three kinds of cotton yarn and cloth, and in the end, it failed to achieve the expected results. It can be seen that rigid and universal price controls are indeed as the original text says: "The impossible is impossible."

If the above suggestion can be adopted by the central government, only keeping the price controls on daily necessities for the people, and allowing other items to be opened up across the board and allowed to be traded freely, we would like to add two points: the maintained price controls should be appropriately adjusted to eliminate their unreasonable state, so that the minimum production costs of agriculture and industry, and the minimum profits of merchants, are all taken into account. The original text says: "We cannot expect everyone to engage in economic behavior that loses money." This sentence is probably what everyone wants to say now, and it is also the fundamental principle for implementing price controls and seeking effectiveness. In his speech to the representatives of various industries the other day, Supervisor Jiang also stated that the price controls will be maintained, but the prices of goods other than daily necessities must take into account their production costs, and the government will guarantee the legitimate interests of industry and commerce. We hope that this principle will be applied to all price controls, that is, the price controls on daily necessities cannot deviate from this principle either. This is the first point. If the scope of price controls is indeed reduced, and goods other than daily necessities are allowed to return to freedom, then the circulation of materials can be greatly improved, and the current various restrictions on exit and barter methods, at least a part of them will not be very applicable, or become unnecessary, and it seems that they should be relaxed or revised in order to strengthen the exchange of materials. This is the second point.

As for the point that excess capital is rampant, everyone has repeatedly pointed out that it must be quickly eliminated, and the central government has also not failed to find ways to absorb this excess currency. The original text suggested that the government use the redeemed gold notes and foreign exchange to purchase daily necessities from foreign countries, which is naturally a very good method. However, in order to absorb excess currency, we believe that if the government does all the purchasing, it is better to relax the scope of foreign exchange applications and allow merchants to purchase separately, so that a part of the gold yuan can be recovered. In addition to daily necessities for the people, the purchased goods should also be extended to all necessary raw materials and production equipment, in order to increase production, maintain employment, and reduce future import quotas.

The government originally designated this gold banknote foreign exchange as a reserve for gold yuan. The government may have some concerns about this suggestion. However, according to relevant parties, the total amount of reserves now exceeds the current amount of issuance, so transferring a part of it to purchase foreign goods should not have any impact. Moreover, according to our opinion, allowing merchants to apply for foreign exchange to purchase will cause foreign exchange to flow out on one hand, and recover an equivalent amount of gold yuan on the other hand, so there will be no problem with the reserves. As everyone knows, the current gold yuan is actually still a kind of managed currency. Whether this currency is sound depends on whether the management is proper, and not on the proportion of reserves. Take the United Kingdom as an example, she has used the cash reserves she holds several times, but it does not affect the value of her pound, so it can be seen that appropriating this redeemed gold banknote foreign exchange, whether in whole or in part, really does not have much relationship with the gold yuan reserves. The original text states; "Because the reserves are not cashed, ... in this case, even if there is a double reserve, it has nothing to do with the value of the gold yuan," which is even more thoroughly stated.

In addition to the two main suggestions described above, the original text also advocates: (1) implement a comprehensive allocation of major necessities of life according to population based on price controls; (2) increase taxes and reasonably increase the prices of public utilities to subsidize the allocation. These two points are open to discussion.

First, it is a question whether the comprehensive allocation of major necessities of life can be truly done well. Because China is vast, with a large population, and the level of knowledge in various places is also uneven, and the government's administrative efficiency is especially far from ideal. The so-called "allocation of major necessities of life according to population" is of course very satisfactory in theory, but there are too many problems that can be imagined when it is implemented. Even if the scope of allocation is limited to urban areas (in fact, this is not very fair), when the government has not been able to completely supply the minimum amount of daily necessities on time, whether the black market can be completely eliminated due to the allocation by head is something that no one can guarantee. If a great deal of effort is spent on handling allocation by head, and it still cannot be "comprehensive" and cannot eliminate the black market, what will happen?

As for tax increases, they have already been partially implemented, and price increases are also being discussed with each other. If these measures are indeed due to urgent financial needs, then they are within the scope of the "August 19" order for emergency measures, and it seems that we do not need to spend much time discussing them. However, if, as the original text says, the aim is to subsidize the allocation, then the relationship is significant, and it is still worth studying carefully. Because there are too many problems with universal allocation, as stated above, and the impact of tax increases and price increases is too great. This is not difficult to obtain factual proof by stimulating the general price increase by raising the tax rates on goods such as tobacco and alcohol. Therefore, we are willing to take a reserved attitude towards this additional suggestion.

Finally, we must also state that since the currency reform, it seems that we have reached the stage of how to solve the difficulties today. Therefore, any suggestion or supplementary method that can be used as a basis for discussion, no matter where it comes from, is not only of concern to the people, but also welcomed by the government. It is not necessary to think that only the suggestions of Beiping are worth adopting, and the public opinion of Shanghai is not worth paying attention to. As for the two points of revising the price control system and allowing the application of gold banknote foreign exchange to absorb excess currency, we especially hope that the responsible authorities will adopt them as soon as possible to improve the current economic situation. In short, no matter what method is used, it must not go against the principle of "making the best use of things and facilitating the flow of goods". The authorities should humbly explore and can suddenly understand the way to save the economic crisis.

### Implementing Total War to Ensure Security, Xiqiao District Decides to Strengthen Winter Defense, Commander Liu Receives Reporters and Reports

[Our Wuxi Dispatch, 26th] Commander Liu of the Wuxi Command Post of the Capital Garrison Headquarters pointed out at a reception for reporters at 3:00 PM on the 26th that when the bandits attempt the slogan of "disturbing Jiangnan" and "destroying the Jinghu", it shows that the human resources, financial resources, and material resources of this jurisdiction are strong enough to defend itself and the country. And said: (1) Implement total war to ensure local security. In the future, all counties should go all out to carry out suppression in the countryside and enrich the vitality of basic administration. (2) Regulate materials, stabilize prices, and strictly implement comprehensive allocation of necessities. (3) Strengthen winter defense, consolidate security, establish military-civilian cooperation stations, eliminate scattered soldiers and vagrants, and stabilize social order.

[Further Dispatch] After rice, flour will be allocated to households starting today and tomorrow, and the common people will benefit universally. Due to continuous rain and lack of fuel, most noodle restaurants have closed, resulting in long queues at noodle stalls. Township liners lack fuel, requests for relief have not been fulfilled, and voyages will be suspended. In addition, after the establishment of the Inspection Commission, it was decided to set up an economic police team to assist in investigation matters.

### Suzhou Household Registration to be Fully Inspected

[Our Suzhou Dispatch, 26th] The Suzhou County Government received an order from the Wuxi Command Post to carry out a general household registration inspection before November 10. At that time, thousands of public teachers, police, security teams, party members, students, and Baojia chiefs will be mobilized in order to quickly and completely achieve the original regulations of ensuring that everyone belongs to a household and every household belongs to a Jia.

### Suzhou Has Meat but No Tax, Director Requests Strict Investigation

[Our Suzhou Dispatch, 26th] Due to the lack of pig sources in this county, the slaughter tax has been suspended. However, general vegetable restaurants still have fresh meat on the market as usual, which shows that there are abuses, which has a huge impact on tax revenue. Yesterday, Tax Director Chuan Boru specially visited County Magistrate Wang, requesting that he immediately investigate whether there are any white pigs being smuggled and investigate the source of fresh meat in each restaurant in order to handle the matter strictly.

### Zhenjiang Has No Rice on the Market, Authorities Urgently Plan Implementation

Thoroughly Investigate Rice Store Inventory

[Our Zhenjiang Dispatch, 26th] For the past week, most rice shops in the provincial capital have had no rice, and the common people have been complaining incessantly. The Provincial Materials Inspection Committee urgently resolved on the 26th: (1) Starting immediately, mobilize military and police to thoroughly investigate the rice inventory of each rice shop. (2) Try to dredge the source of food as much as possible. (3) Dispatch 100 soldiers from the Security Corps to maintain market order. Soldiers without ration cards or household registration will absolutely not be allowed to squeeze, steal, or forcibly buy. (4) For rice purchases by government agencies, schools, and various regular business groups, the agencies and groups shall apply to the county government according to the preferential collective purchase method, and then go directly to the manufacturers to purchase at the price. In addition, when Zhang Da, Director of the Provincial Security Police, inspected the rice market supply at 11:00 AM on the 26th, he arrested a vagrant soldier who was disturbing the order on the spot and took him to the Security Command for legal action.

### Nantong Sets Up Economic Committee, Restrictions on Food Rice Circulation Increased

[Our Nantong Dispatch, 26th] In view of the recent imbalance between supply and demand of people's livelihood necessities such as rice, oil, salt, and cooking grass, and the difficulty of purchasing them, the Economic Department of the Nantong Command summoned relevant local agencies and gentry to discuss dredging methods, and decided to establish an Economic Committee to plan material control and allocation methods within the district. It is also stipulated that rice under two斗 is allowed to circulate freely, within one 石 a certificate is issued by the township government, within ten 石 a certificate is issued by the county government, and above ten 石 a certificate is issued by the command post before it can pass.

### Chongqing Cotton Yarn Distribution, New Methods Formulated

[Our Chongqing Dispatch, 26th] Chen Quhuo, Director of the Chongqing Cotton Yarn Joint Operation and Distribution Office, and Pan Yangshan, Chairman of the Board, recently formulated methods and submitted them to the Pacification Headquarters for approval. The main content is: each yarn factory's total monthly production should allocate 20% to the Chongqing City reproduction industry, 10% to the other reproduction industry, and the remaining 70% to self-transporting and self-selling manufacturers and rural scattered weaving households. As for transportation to manufacturers outside the transportation area, it is limited to within the Chongqing Pacification District and must be approved by the Social Bureau. In addition, purchases of cotton from Shaanxi and Suining and other places should first be registered with the Social Bureau.

### Tianjin Prices Fall Continuously

[Central News Agency, Tianjin, 26th] Farmers in the four rural areas of Tianjin have recently brought autumn harvested rice and miscellaneous grains into the urban area for sale, so the price of grain has fallen day by day, and the prices of other daily necessities such as edible oil and meat have also fallen a lot.

### Power Plants Allowed to Collect Half a Month's Electricity Bill Next Month

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] The Ministry of Industry and Commerce has recently issued an order to the competent authorities of various provinces and cities and the Jiangsu Electrical Industry Association regarding the collection of fees by various power plants in October, allowing them to pre-collect half a month's electricity bill in November to maintain operations.

### Guangzhou Strictly Investigates Financial Black Market

[Our Guangzhou Dispatch, 26th] As the deadline for collecting gold, silver, and foreign currencies is approaching, the Guangzhou Economic Management Office has instructed the Guangzhou Economic Management Bureau to strengthen inspection work. After receiving the order, the Bureau has added a large number of external mobile personnel to conduct strict inspections to eliminate financial black market activities.

### Shenyang is Freezing Cold, Clothes are Not Enough to Keep Warm

[Central News Agency, Shenyang, 26th] Shenyang City was frozen this morning by more than an inch. The north wind was cold all day. The temperature at noon was still around 0 degrees Celsius. People are all wearing winter clothes. Although the sun is shining, clothes are still not enough to keep warm.

### Xuzhou's First Snow

[Our Xuzhou Dispatch, 26th] A cold wave hit Xuzhou this morning, and the climate was suddenly cold, like winter, and there was rain and snow.

### Wuhan's Autumn Chill is Like Severe Winter

Market is Depressed, Diamond Tickets are Popular

[Our Hankou Dispatch, 26th] On the 26th, the cold wind here was biting, like a severe winter. There were few pedestrians on the road, and the market was depressed. However, the first phase of Diamond Treasure Lottery, which was started to be sold by the Industrial Bank, was still being bought in competition, and the situation was unprecedented.

### Qinghai Heavy Snow Falls Repeatedly, Farmland and Animal Husbandry Suffer

[Our Xining Dispatch, 26th] Heavy snow has fallen repeatedly in Qinghai Province in recent days, reaching a depth of one chi, which is the only time it has been seen in decades. Half of the farmland in the province has not yet been harvested and is bound to germinate. The farmers' hard work throughout the year has been destroyed in one fell swoop. Especially in remote pastoral areas, the water and grass, which are regarded as the lifeline, are sealed by snow, and livestock cannot avoid starvation. There are also many other trees and power lines that have been destroyed. The provincial government has reported to the central government and the Northwest Commander's Office.

### Chengdu Strike Spreads

[Our Chengdu Dispatch, 26th] Today, the strike of teachers and staff in various provincial schools in Sichuan Province continued to expand. The Joint Association of Teachers of Art and other 17 schools participated, and today telegraphed the presidents of the three courts of Administration, Legislation, and Supervision, reporting that Wang Lingji, Chairman of Sichuan Province, withheld the supplementary salary of 88% of public teachers and staff in Sichuan Province for no reason, and requested a thorough investigation and strict handling. The provincial government has promised to pay the arrears and subsidies for rice today.

### Ping Normal University Students Ask for Leave En Masse

[Our Beiping Dispatch, 26th] Students of Normal University held a meeting at 3:00 PM and decided to ask for leave for five days starting today to support the professors' leave. Lecturers and teaching assistants will also stop teaching for five days. Researchers and staff of the Ping Research Institute will also ask for leave for five days starting tomorrow.

### Siam Donates 500 Tons of Rice, Delivered to China to Conduct Emergency Relief Work for Children in Nine Districts, Our Government Decides to Set Up Stations to Provide Meals

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] News from the Ministry of Social Affairs: The government of Siam donated 500 tons of rice. The Ministry has received a notice from the China Office of the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund that it will be delivered to China by the Emergency Fund to conduct emergency relief work for children in nine districts, including Shanghai, Nanjing, Xuzhou, Kaifeng, Hankou, Qingdao, Beiping, Tianjin, and Guangzhou. The rice has not yet been delivered to China. The emergency relief work for children is carried out in accordance with the agreement signed between our government and the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, which stipulates that both parties will allocate funds and materials to provide food supply, clothing, and medical relief to poor and disaster-stricken infants, children, adolescents, pregnant women, and lactating mothers in the aforementioned nine regions. At present, the first batch of US$1 million in materials (including milk powder, fat, cod liver oil, and 2,000 metric tons of rice) is being shipped one after another, totaling approximately 2,500 metric tons including the 500 tons donated by the government of Siam. After the materials allocated by the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund arrive in China, our government should transfer them to the nine emergency relief areas in accordance with the agreement, and allocate funds to purchase meat of equivalent heat. Soybeans. Vegetables. Salt and other items, and set up meal supply stations to supply the relief recipients. It is estimated that the number of people receiving meal supply is approximately 250,000.

### Factories in Pingjinji Decide to Exchange Products for Grain

[Our Beiping Dispatch, 26th] Public and private mines and factories in Pingjinji held a meeting yesterday and decided to barter goods for grain to solve the grain shortage for employees and reduce losses. Various mines and factories can purchase flour through the Hebei Bank and Jianye Company in exchange for products.

### Tianjin Councilors Suggest Issuing Winter Relief Stamps

[Central News Agency, Tianjin, 26th] Tianjin councilors decided to suggest that the Post Office Administration issue four types of winter relief commemorative stamps: 1 yuan (orange), 5 jiao (grass green), 4 jiao (dark blue), and 1 jiao (rice red), for the purpose of rescuing refugees and the poor, as various countries often issue winter relief stamps in winter.

### Torture in Shanghai Concentration Camps, Two War Criminals Interrogated in Hong Kong, Request to Invite Other Witnesses, Trial Suspended

[Central News Agency, Hong Kong, 26th] Two Japanese Kempeitai officers were on trial here for the first time today for allegedly mistreating and torturing Shanghai residents (including Allied personnel residing at the Richa Hotel). One of the defendants today asked the court to allow him to invite additional witnesses to appear in court to prove his "innocence." The trial was temporarily suspended. According to this, the two Japanese, one was former Japanese Shanghai Kempeitai Commander Lieutenant General Kinoshita, and the other was Sergeant Yoshida of the Kempeitai Special Service Group. They were tried in the Hong Kong War Crimes Tribunal this morning. One of their crimes was that during the war, they mistreated and tortured Chinese and Allied people in the dark Richa Hotel and other concentration camps, causing injury and death to the detainees.

### Taiwan Comfort Mission Returns to Nanjing, Will Stay for One or Two Days and Then Return to Taiwan

[Central News Agency, Nanjing, 26th] The Taiwan Provincial Comfort Mission flew in here from the desert at 5:00 PM today, completing the comfort trip to the Northeast, North China, Northwest, and Central China. They will stay in Nanjing for one or two days and then return directly to Taiwan.

### Jiangxi Councilor Liu Shaochun Shot and Killed by Thugs

[Our Guangfeng Dispatch, 25th] Provincial Councilor Liu Shaochun was shot and killed by thugs at Gutang Pavilion, Xiafang Township, at noon on October 25. Details are pending investigation.

### French Classical Expedition Translates Tibetan Scriptures in Kang

[Our Chongqing Dispatch, 26th] According to Liu Wenhui's telegram: Megot, a member of the French Classical Expedition, and Bard arrived in Dege County, Kang Province, to translate Tibetan scriptures. They will stay in various counties in northern Kang and specialize in Buddhism. Because Changdu Laru Galun telegraphed that they were not allowed to cross the river, they could not enter Tibet.

### Highway Traffic Safety Association Holds Third Standing Meeting in Hangzhou

[Our Hangzhou Dispatch, 26th] The Third Standing Meeting of the National Highway Traffic Safety Promotion Association was held in Hangzhou on the 26th. More than 30 people attended. Chairman Yan Zezhi said that China's traffic safety movement is still in its infancy. In order to reduce vehicle accidents, this movement should strive for universality.

### Zhejiang Province Sets Up Shipyards in Ningbo, Wenzhou, and Haimen

[Our Hangzhou Dispatch, 26th] Zhejiang Province has decided to set up shipyards in Ningbo, Wenzhou, and Haimen to use fishing relief materials to build inland river ships for sale, and then build a large number of offshore fishing vessels.

### Shaanxi Water Conservancy Film Begins Shooting

Since the Great Drought of the 18th Year of the Republic of China

[Our Xi'an Dispatch, 26th] The Shaanxi Water Conservancy audio-visual film has begun shooting. The film is jointly produced by the Shaanxi Water Conservancy Bureau and the Ministry of Education. It is expected to use 2,000 meters of film, which will be cut into a length of about 800 meters and can be played for 25 minutes. The entire film focuses on the engineering of the Jinghui and other canals and the lives of farmers, accompanied by Shaanxi folk tunes, and adds statistical tables. The time is from the great drought in Shaanxi in the 18th year of the Republic of China to the present. It is expected to be completed by the end of the year.

### Unifying National Weights and Measures; Prohibition of Units Such as Yards and Pounds

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] Ministry of Industry and Commerce News: Upon investigation, the "yard," "pound," and other units of the Anglo-American system of weights and measures do not conform to the regulations of our national weights and measures law and were long ago ordered to be banned. The year before last, a unification of weights and measures used in major enterprises across the country was carried out. The Central Bureau of Standards was instructed to send personnel to major cities such as Peiping, Shanghai, Tianjin, Qingdao, and Hankou to assist local weights and measures authorities in actively carrying out this task. For example, gasoline, which was previously calculated in Anglo-American gallons, has gradually been converted to liters. Cotton yarn, which was previously calculated in Anglo-American pounds, has now been converted to kilograms. However, it has been found that woolen textile factories still use "yard," "pound," and other units of the Anglo-American system to calculate their products, which does not comply with the law and should be banned. The Construction Bureaus and Social Affairs Bureaus of all provinces have been notified to instruct the woolen textile industry associations in various localities to urge all woolen textile factories to uniformly convert to units such as "meters" and "kilograms." The Central Bureau of Standards has also been ordered to instruct the weights and measures inspection institutes in various localities to comply with this order.

### Whereabouts of Prominent Figures

Central News Agency, Guangzhou Dispatch: After completing his educational inspection in Guangzhou, Zhu Jiahua originally planned to fly to Xiamen for an inspection on the 27th. This plan has been cancelled, and he now intends to take a China National Aviation Corporation (CNAC) plane to Shanghai on that day and then transfer to Nanjing.

Our Chengdu Dispatch: On the 26th, Zhang Junmai lectured on democratic politics and the philosophical basis thereof at Sichuan University. Starting on the 27th, he will give lectures at Huaxi University and Chenghua University. On the 31st, he will proceed to Guilin and fear Sha.

Our Xuzhou Dispatch: Chairman of Jiangsu Province, Ding Zhiipan, departed by car for Nanjing from Zhenjiang on the morning of the 26th.

Central News Agency, Our City Dispatch: Xiang Zhexun, our prosecutor dispatched to the International Military Tribunal for the Far East in Tokyo, will leave Shanghai by Northwest Airlines plane this morning for Tokyo, as the tribunal's sentencing is imminent and his prosecutorial duties are about to conclude.

Central News Agency, Singapore Dispatch: Bishop Yu Bin spent the entire day of the 26th busily paying official visits to local authorities.

Our Chongqing Dispatch: Tang Yi, Deputy Director of the National Police Headquarters, flew from Nanjing to Chongqing on the 26th. In addition, Central Committee Member Ye Xiufeng is scheduled to fly from Chongqing to Kunming on the 27th.

### News in Brief

Central News Agency, Nanjing Dispatch: The second session of the Central Cooperative Treasury's treasury affairs meeting opened at 9:00 a.m. on the 26th in the treasury's auditorium.

Our Zhenjiang Dispatch: The Jiangsu Provincial Grain Affairs Review Conference is scheduled to convene on the 27th at the Provincial Grain Affairs Office. The heads of the grain affairs offices of the 24 counties responsible for the collection of in-kind taxes arrived in the province today, the 26th, to report.

Our Suzhou Dispatch: The case of the death of Qian Zaichu, a resident of Xihua Shifan Township in the county, after steaming the bones for examination, is scheduled to open its investigative court on the 3rd of next month.

Our Hankou Dispatch: The Association of Descendants of Comrades of the Wuchang Uprising of 1911 was formally established in Wuchang on the morning of the 26th and issued a declaration.

Our Chongqing Dispatch: As of the 26th of October, the eastward transport of Sichuan grain had reached 5,927 tons.

Our Chongqing Dispatch: Zeng Zhixuan, manager of the Baohe Electrical Supplies Store on Shaanxi Street, who harbored over 270 catties of opium, has been detained by the police.

Our Guilin Dispatch: Luo Mingzhai, one of the protagonists in the gold case, surrendered to the District Procuratorate on the 25th.

Central News Agency, Beiping Dispatch: The Civil Aviation Administration's air transport team has added the Peiping-Lanzhou route since last week. The demand for seats is very high, and bookings have been scheduled to the middle of next month.

Approval Granted for Transferring Gold, Silver, and Foreign Exchange Deposits to Finance Additional Capital: Ministry of Finance Notifies Various Banks and Trading Firms

[Our Nanjing Dispatch, 26th] Since the currency reform, gold, silver, foreign currency, and foreign exchange declared by the people can be exchanged for Gold Yuan notes at any time in accordance with Article 3 of the Measures for Handling Gold, Silver, and Foreign Currency Owned by the People and Article 2, Paragraph 2 of the Central Bank's Measures for Payment of Foreign Currency and Foreign Exchange Deposits. It is now learned that, as various silver and money banks and trading firms are currently adjusting their capital in accordance with the law, if they intend to exchange their declared gold, silver, foreign currency, or foreign exchange deposits for Gold Yuan notes to finance additional capital, there is no conflict with the original regulations, and permission may be granted. The aforementioned regulations have been submitted to the Executive Yuan and approved for implementation on October 16 of this year, and all banks and trading firms in various localities have been notified accordingly.

## Page 3

### Soviet Union Vetoes Neutral Nations' Proposal; Berlin Problem Remains Deadlocked; Western Powers Confer on Next Steps

[Our Dispatch] Paris, 26th (Radio): Since Soviet Foreign Minister Vyshinsky vetoed the compromise proposal of the six neutral nations on the 25th, the deadlock in the Berlin problem has become increasingly apparent. Well-informed sources expect that the United States, Britain, France, the Soviet Union, and the neutral nations will continue to negotiate in the Security Council in order to resolve the Berlin dispute. It is reported that acting Chairman Brahmagriya believes that after further discussions, there may still be a possibility of reconciliation between the Western and Soviet views on the Berlin problem, as Vyshinsky has stated that if appropriate control of the Berlin currency can be established at the same time, the Soviet Union is willing to lift the Berlin blockade. The US delegation shares Brahmagriya's view that continued negotiations are still possible, but notes that negotiations may be temporarily suspended due to Vyshinsky's veto.

[Agence France-Presse, Paris, 25th] Soviet Representative Vyshinsky frankly rejected the six neutral nations' proposal on the Berlin problem in the Security Council today. The vote resulted in an expected 9 votes to 2 (with the Soviet Union and Ukraine casting opposing votes). However, according to Article 27, Paragraph 2 of the United Nations Charter, the Soviet Union's opposing vote is also a veto, so Chairman Brahmagriya had no choice but to announce that the proposal had been vetoed. United Nations statisticians pointed out that this was the 27th time the Soviet Union had used its veto power. The neutral nations immediately announced that they would continue to strive to resolve this crisis.

[Associated Press, Paris, 25th] US Secretary of State Marshall, British Foreign Secretary Bevin, and French Foreign Minister Schuman will meet at 8:30 a.m. on the 26th to decide on their next steps. The decision of the meeting may be to submit the Berlin problem to the United Nations General Assembly, as suggested by Jessup, and demand that the General Assembly condemn the Soviet Union as a disruptor of peace in front of the entire world. It is rumored that Britain and France do not support this point. After the Security Council adjourned, Jessup told acting Chairman Brahmagriya, "We are not finished yet." Brahmagriya also stated that he would convene a meeting of the six neutral nations on the morning of the 26th. Before the meeting, Vyshinsky attempted to have the Western allies accept an amendment to the neutral nations' proposal. The main aim of the amendment was to gradually, rather than immediately, lift the blockade, so that the date of the final lifting of the entire blockade would be the date of reaching a currency agreement. The Western allies opposed this proposal, believing that this would mean negotiating under pressure.

[Agence France-Presse, Washington, 25th] Political circles here are neither disappointed nor worried about the Soviet Union's veto of the Security Council's proposal on the Berlin issue. Most commentators point out that Vyshinsky is not willing to completely break with the Western powers at this time. His intention is clearly to buy time to wait for (1) the results of the US presidential election, after which the US may announce military aid to Europe; (2) the results of the French government's power struggle with the communist trade union leaders; and (3) the completion of the Soviet Union's organization of satellite states and preparations for East Germany. After this, the Soviet Union may propose a bombshell proposal, advocating the complete withdrawal of occupying forces stationed in Germany.

### Arab and Jewish Representatives Accuse Each Other in Security Council of Violating Truce; Bunche Urges Israeli and Egyptian Armies to Withdraw to Original Positions

[Associated Press, Paris, 26th] United Nations Acting Mediator for Palestine, Bunche, announced on the 26th that he had called on the Israeli and Egyptian armies in southern Palestine to withdraw to their original positions before the outbreak of hostilities on October 14.

[Agence France-Presse, Paris, 26th] The Security Council met this morning to hear accusations from both the Arab and Jewish sides of violating the truce. First, Egyptian Representative Kahchuba delivered a lengthy speech stating that the Jewish army took advantage of the truce to launch a large-scale military operation against Nikuf, claiming that its food convoy was attacked by the Egyptian army. He declared that the Jewish army's aggression was caused by the Security Council's inaction and the Jewish army's belief that a fait accompli could lead to recognition.

Lebanese Representative Amani also emphasized in similar remarks that the Jewish army's attack on Nikuf was aimed at occupying territory that should be assigned to the Arabs under the Bernadotte Plan. The Arab countries' representatives' accusations were refuted by Israeli Representative Eban, who stated that the Egyptian army's invasion of Palestine was a clear violation of the truce, but when the Egyptian army suffered a military defeat, it appealed to the Security Council. Eban then mentioned that the Security Council had suggested holding negotiations to discuss the Nikuf issue, stating that Nikuf resolutely refused to fall back into the chaos from which the city had just emerged. After the representatives from both sides debated, Chairman Austin, the US representative, issued a statement, saying that the council would not be influenced by the biases of either side, and that the debate on this issue would continue on the 28th, and then announced the adjournment of the meeting.

### Enduring the Hardships of Winter, Determined Not to Succumb to the Soviet Union

German Anti-Communist Leader Issues Appeal

[Our Dispatch] London, 26th (Radio): A German anti-communist leader on the 26th urged the people of Berlin to prepare to endure the hardships of the winter blockade and to resolutely not succumb to Soviet pressure. This is the reaction caused by the Soviet Union's veto of the neutral nations' compromise proposal in the Security Council.

### Resupplying Berlin, Strengthening the Airlift

[Associated Press, Washington, 26th] Air Force officials estimate that the tonnage transported daily by the Berlin airlift will be approximately doubled in a month, as the Tegel Airport in the French-occupied sector of Berlin will be opened in early December. This airport was built by 15,000 Berlin citizens under the supervision of US military engineers. Its area is similar to that of the currently used Tempelhof Airport, but its runways are better. The main difficulty is the aircraft, but the US government has authorized Clay to mobilize 66 C-54 transport aircraft, which has given Berlin and Paris the greatest possible psychological impact.

### UN General Assembly Debates Greek Situation; Markos Will Not Be Allowed to Participate

[Associated Press, Paris, 26th] The Political Committee of the UN General Assembly voted 50 to 6 on the 26th to reject a Yugoslav proposal to allow a representative of the rebel commander Markos to speak when debating the Greek issue.

### The Situation in South Korea is Easing; Rebellious Source of Yeosu Has Been Recovered; However, Police Announce Rebels Captured Gurye Town Again

[Central News Agency, Seoul, 26th] South Korean government forces claim to have recovered Yeosu, the source of the South Korean rebellion and one of the rebel strongholds, on the evening of the 25th. The week-long rebellion appears to have been checked today. Suncheon, 20 miles west of Yeosu by air, has returned to normal, with the rebels abandoning the city on the 24th. Suncheon was the rebel headquarters. However, police announced that Gurye Town, 20 miles north of Suncheon by air on the railway line, fell into rebel hands this morning, with the number of rebels occupying Gurye unknown.

It is reported that the dispersed rebels are still putting up strong resistance in the areas west and east of Suncheon this morning. Government forces are personally commanded by Song Hocheon, commander-in-chief of the South Korean army, and Minister of Defense Lee Beomseok flew to Gwangju, the capital of Jeolla Province, where government reinforcements are concentrated, with Minister of Interior Yoon Chi-young, who is in charge of the police, this morning. Witnesses fleeing the rebel area reported that the rebels apparently did not harass British people in the area. They also said that the Communist-led rebels' slogan was "Oppose the police system and demand freedom for the masses."

### Yugoslavia Accuses Military Government of Violating Treaty with Italy

[Our Dispatch] Paris, 26th (Radio): It was announced on the 26th that Yugoslavia has requested the Security Council to revoke Trieste's participation in the European Recovery Program. The Yugoslav Foreign Ministry sent a telegram of 2,500 words to Security Council Chairman Austin, accusing the Allied military government of violating the treaty with Italy and damaging the territorial integrity and independence of the Free Territory of Trieste.

### The Malayan Insurgency; Chinese Suffer Heavy Casualties

More Than Four Hundred Killed by the Government

[Central News Agency, London, 25th] British Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, Rees-Williams, stated publicly here tonight that the Chinese have suffered the heaviest casualties in the Malayan insurgency. He said that since June, of the 223 people killed by insurgents, 169 were Chinese, 17 were Europeans, 25 were Malayans, and 2 were Javanese. Of the 430 people killed by the government, 407 were Chinese.

### Five Western European Countries Prepare to Sign Atlantic Alliance with the United States and Canada; Aimed at jointly preventing Soviet aggression

[Associated Press, Paris, 26th] The foreign ministers of the five Western European countries are expected to issue a communiqué on the evening of the 26th, announcing the progress of the alliance's preparations for signing the North Atlantic Collective Defense Treaty with the United States and Canada. At an important meeting held here, Canadian Minister of National Defence Claxton frankly acknowledged that the purpose of the collective defense treaty is to prevent the Soviet Union from launching an aggressive war. The Soviet side has declared that the Western European alliance and the collective defense treaty are anti-Soviet tools.

### Bloody Clashes in Central French Mining Area; Miners in Aire Fire on Receiving Troops; Hundred Miners Arrested All Armed

[Associated Press, Paris, 26th] The French Ministry of the Interior announced that troops were shot at by striking coal miners when attempting to occupy two mine shafts near Aire in central France on the 26th. The strikers also used mines and hand grenades to attack the troops. It also stated that one army lieutenant was shot and wounded, and several miners were also injured. A hundred strikers have been arrested, most of whom were carrying weapons. Despite the outbreak of hostilities, government troops occupied four mine shafts north of Aire before noon. Government troops continued to occupy three mines in the north on the 26th with overwhelming superiority, without encountering resistance. It had already occupied twelve coal mines on the 25th. It is also reported that foreign agitators are active in the mining area of Aire, and orders have been issued for their arrest. The miners in Aire once planned to attack the county government, gendarmerie, and police station, but were repelled by the city's security reserve force. Railway and postal workers in Aire have also launched protest strikes.

### King George VI Presides Over Opening of British Parliament Yesterday; Steel Industry Nationalization Bill to be Discussed

[Associated Press, London, 26th] King George VI, in opening this session of Parliament on the 26th, read a speech from the throne requesting Parliament to pass the British steel industry nationalization bill and urging Parliament to amend the Parliament Act of 1911, encourage the enlistment of civilian defense organizations to strengthen military strength, and improve housing conditions. The two houses of the British Parliament held a joint meeting in a medieval solemn ceremony that had been nearly extinct since 1938. The lords of the House of Lords were greatly disturbed as the King reviewed the recent developments of the Berlin crisis. The King said, "My government will continue to cooperate closely and harmoniously with other contracting governments within the scope of the Brussels Pact, to fully uphold the United Nations, and to strive to achieve the goal of world peace." George praised last week's Commonwealth Prime Ministers' Conference, saying that it "demonstrated the willingness of the Commonwealth's hundreds of millions of subjects to cooperate voluntarily and set an example for others. With our economy receiving US aid and cooperating sincerely with Western Europe and the Commonwealth countries, we have high hopes of repaying our debts and restoring prosperity."

### Dewey Sets Off Again; Undertakes Seven-State Campaign Trip

Plans to End Campaign Activities Next Week

[Associated Press, Albany, New York, 25th] Republican presidential candidate Dewey began his carefully planned seven-state campaign trip on the 25th to end his pre-election campaign activities.

[Associated Press, Cleveland, Ohio, 26th] President Truman stated in a speech at a public meeting in Cleveland on the evening of the 26th that the Republican Party would inevitably fail in the election. He said, "What our country needs now is not a new president, but a new Congress."

### "Voice of America" Broadcasts US Election Situation

Starting at 10:15 a.m. on November 3rd

[US Information Service, Washington, 25th] November 2nd is the date of the US presidential election. The "Voice of America" radio station will hold a special broadcast from 10:15 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. Shanghai time on Wednesday, November 3rd. In addition to broadcasting, television will be used extensively for the first time to report on the election situation.

### Japanese Cabinet Appoints Ms. Kondo as Vice Minister

First Time in Japanese History

[Central News Agency, Tokyo, 26th] The Japanese Cabinet formally appointed 22 vice ministers from various ministries to attend parliament today, including Ms. Kondo Tsuruyo. She is the first woman in Japanese history to serve as a vice minister in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of these 22 vice ministers, 18 are members of the Democratic Liberal Party, and only 4 are members of the Ryokufukai from the House of Councillors. Of all the vice ministers selected from parliament, 13 were selected from the House of Representatives and 8 from the House of Councillors.

### Regular Session of Japanese House of Representatives; Yoshida Will Deliver Speech

Nagata Kiyoshi Resigns as Director-General of Economic Stabilization Board

[Shinya News Agency, Tokyo, 26th] At the operating committee of the Japanese House of Representatives on the 26th, it was decided to hold the opening ceremony of the parliament on the morning of the 8th, and Prime Minister Yoshida will deliver a policy speech on the 9th.

[Another Dispatch] Although the Yoshida Cabinet has been established for a week, the position of Director-General of the Economic Stabilization Board has not yet found a suitable candidate. Yoshida recently invited Nagata Kiyoshi, president of the Japan Rubber Company, to take office again, and on the evening of the 25th, Nagata went to the Foreign Minister's residence again to earnestly decline the Prime Minister's offer.

### Sri Lankan Ambassador to the United States Goria Arrives in Washington

[Associated Press, Washington, 26th] Sri Lanka's first ambassador to the United States, Goria, arrived here on the 26th.

## Page 4

### Municipal Authorities Decide in Yesterday's Symposium: Household Registration Check on the 8th of Next Month; Air Raid Siren Will Sound at 8 PM and Citizens Should Return Home; First Batch of New ID Cards Printed; Will First be Distributed in the Suburbs

[Our Dispatch] Municipal authorities and heads of various organizations held a symposium at 3:00 PM yesterday in the Municipal Government Conference Room regarding the city-wide household registration check and daily necessities allocation. Jiang Jingguo, Xuan Tiewu, Pan Gongzhan, Zhang Xiaosong, Li Lixia, Fang Zhi, Yu Shuping, Xu Jilun, Du Yuesheng, and Shen Zonglian, among others, attended, totaling over thirty people. Mayor Wu chaired the meeting. Zhang Xiaosong first reported that the new National Identity Cards and commodity ration cards were being expedited. The new cards use a red and black duo-tone and require serial numbers, so they must be printed in three batches. The Central Printing Plant is currently working day and night to expedite printing. The first batch will be completed on the 27th of this month and will be distributed by the Civil Affairs Bureau first in the suburbs and then in the city center. According to statistics, there are a total of 1,193 Bao in the city. It is estimated that 60,000 people will need to be mobilized for the general inspection, plus 10,000 people to control traffic, for a total of 70,000 people. After Director Zhang's report, the following two points were decided: (1) The date for the general household registration check is tentatively set for November 8th, from 9:00 PM on the 8th to 1:00 AM on the 9th. The air raid siren will sound at 8:00 PM on the 8th, and citizens must return home to await the distribution of the new National Identity Cards. (2) Newspaper reporters will be allowed to move freely during the general inspection, but they must have a letter of introduction prepared by the newspaper in advance and submitted to the Municipal Government Information Office four days before the start of the general inspection for transfer to the Civil Affairs Bureau to prepare special certificates. (3) The detailed measures for the exchange of new National Identity Cards will be announced by the Civil Affairs Bureau before the implementation of the household registration check.

Regarding the issue of allocating daily necessities, Li Lixia, Wu Kaixian, and Zeng Gangfu, secretary and director of the Committee for the Supply of Materials to Public Educators, respectively reported the number of unionized workers and their families, the number of registered public employees, and the number of teachers and staff members in private universities, middle schools, and elementary schools. The meeting also discussed in detail the measures for allocating materials to public educators and industrial workers and their families in the future.

### Jiang Jingguo Flies to Nanjing This Morning to Discuss the Implementation of Rationing; Prices of Items Other Than Necessities to be Re-Examined

[Our Dispatch] Jiang Jingguo is scheduled to fly to Nanjing this morning to meet with Executive Yuan President Weng Wenhao to discuss the implementation of rationing in the three provinces and two cities. It is reported that, in order to facilitate the flow of materials, the authorities will re-examine the prices of items other than the five categories of necessities based on their actual costs.

### Mayor Wu Goes to Nanjing

Mayor of Wu Guozhen, at the invitation of Executive Yuan President Weng, is scheduled to go to Nanjing this morning.

### Youth Service Corps Seizes Large Quantities of Hoarded Goods

Youth Service Corps, the 13th Brigade, and various detachments acted separately yesterday and seized several underground warehouses. Detachment 65 seized 46 large drums of gasoline and diesel fuel at Jinniu Company, 28 Dintang Street, Luban Road, Nanshi. Detachment 65 seized 33 drums of gasoline, 104 drums of engine oil, and 1 drum of semi-refined oil hoarded by Hongfeng Enterprise Company in the Xin Jing District. Detachment 62 seized a large quantity of calcium carbide totaling 1,492 large drums, 142 boxes of telephone pole wire, 32 drums of electronic oil, carbon brush boxes, and 4 telephone pole motor pumps hoarded by Xinqiang Company and Xinhua Company inside the Yanghe Winery at 1170 Kaixuan Road, Changning District. Detachment 64 seized 258 bags of flour, 7.5 tons of coal, 8 blocks of soda ash, and 6 large bags of yeast powder at the Xinxing Flour Mill at 50 Cunshan Lane, Wujiaochang, Caoxi Road. Detachment 63 seized 300 bags of rice at the Chenji Rice Store on Jiangsu Road, and also seized several dozen dan of rice opposite the store. Furthermore, Squad Leader Chen Shouen of the detachment seized over 20,000 jin of brown sugar and over 18,000 jin of white sugar at the Fuxing Sugar Factory at 22, Lane 246, Sanpailoukou, Xueyuan Road, Nanshi, and also seized a large quantity of hoarded Western medicine at 11 Qiutang Village, Pudong Road.

### Liu Gongyun Reports on Commodity Regulation

[Our Dispatch] The Shanghai Commodity Regulation Committee held its ninth meeting at 11:00 AM yesterday. Chairman Liu Gongyun reported on the commodity regulation situation as follows: (1) Coal: The China Trust Bureau has ordered 70,000 tons of foreign coal, and the first batch of 30,000 tons is expected to arrive in Shanghai by the end of next month. The remaining 40,000 tons are expected to arrive successively in December. (2) Rice: In order to facilitate the flow of rice, it has been decided to exchange cotton yarn for rice. The Textile Construction Company and the Central Bank have allocated 20,000 bolts of yarn and 60,000 pieces of yarn respectively to the Food Emergency Procurement and Storage Committee for barter. (3) Raw Cotton: Efforts are being made to increase the supply as much as possible. 10,000 pieces of yarn have been allocated to the National Cotton Joint Purchasing Office to be transported to the producing areas for cotton exchange. (4) Wheat: 50,000 tons have been ordered from Canada and will be shipped to China in batches in the short term. After the report was completed, the three subgroups of industrial raw materials, fuel, and daily necessities submitted their review reports. After detailed discussions at the meeting, it was decided that (1) the method for allocating cotton yarn to the replication industry would be based on the principle of exchanging yarn for cloth, and the exchange ratio would be discussed and decided by the subgroup meeting separately. (2) Regarding the supply of industrial raw materials in the city, it was concluded that the inventory could be maintained for one or two months, and the raw materials required by the rubber industry could be requested from the Transportation Control Commission to be allocated from the quotas for the seventh and eighth seasons.

### Materials and Finance Committee Decides on Two Points Yesterday

[Our Dispatch] The National Bank's Materials and Finance Committee held its eleventh meeting at 5:00 PM on the 25th. The important resolutions were as follows: (1) It was decided to purchase white coal from Mentougou and Henan to replenish the city's rationed coal. (2) Private schools in Peiping previously requested the National Bank to purchase 80,000 bags of flour on their behalf. The National Bank has purchased over 40,000 bags in Shanghai according to the deadline, and the remaining quantity will be allocated and sold from the National Bank's flour stored in Peiping at preferential prices.

### Detention of 10,000 Bundles of Coal and Firewood; Social Bureau Cables for Release and Transport to Shanghai

[Our Newspaper's Report] Most of Shanghai's charcoal fuel comes from Zhejiang. After the Zhejiang Provincial Government issued a clear order on the 12th of this month prohibiting the export of charcoal, it affected Shanghai's supply. On the one hand, citizens were rushing to buy it, and fuel panic became increasingly serious. Yesterday, the Shanghai Coal and Firewood Trade Association specially dispatched representatives to the Social Bureau to petition, requesting to clear the supply sources. After receiving the report, the Social Bureau immediately cabled the Zhejiang Provincial Construction Department to lift the ban, in order to supply the Shanghai market, and sent official letters to the Zhejiang-Jiangxi and Shanghai-Hangzhou Railway Bureaus, requesting that the 10,000 bundles of coal and firewood detained at various stations be released immediately and transported to Shanghai for sale.

### Social Bureau Plans Measures for Exchange of Daily Necessities for Rice

[Our Newspaper's Report] According to the instructions of the Supervisory Office, the Social Bureau is drafting measures for Shanghai factories to exchange daily necessities for rice from other places. The items to be exchanged are expected to include twelve kinds of goods such as cloth, soap, matches, cigarettes, and sugar. After being submitted to Director Wu and Supervisor Jiang for approval, they can be officially implemented.

### Cotton Cloth Stores Illegally Trading on the Black Market; Three Persons in Charge Detained and Interrogated

[Our Newspaper's Report] Yesterday, the Detective Brigade of the Police Department discovered that three cotton cloth stores, namely Ying Tai, Li Tai, and Ding Hua Xiang, located at No. 10 Yifeng Lane, Guizhou Road, were suspected of engaging in black market transactions. Many forged account books and black market transaction documents were seized on the spot. The persons in charge of each store, Gao Senrong, Wang Bofang, and Li Zongyuan, were taken to the police station for detention and interrogation.

### Fictitious Knitting Factory; Suspected Acquisition Being Investigated

[Our Newspaper's Report] Yesterday, the Economic Police Brigade received a report that Renfeng Knitting Factory at No. 25, Lane 87, Shengze Street, was suspected of using a fictitious name to acquire allocated yarn from the Textile Construction Company. The team sent personnel to investigate and found that the place was actually a small-scale family hosiery workshop, with only eight rusty hosiery machines and no workers. Moreover, it had not been approved and issued a license by the Social Bureau. However, the account books seized at the place showed that dozens of pieces of cotton yarn had indeed been applied for from the Textile Construction Company. Because the person in charge of the shop was absent, in addition to taking the seized account books to the bureau for safekeeping, a summons will be issued today for investigation.

### Five Cases of Violation of Price Limits Prosecuted

[Our Newspaper's Report] Yesterday, the District Attorney's Office prosecuted five cases of violating price limits:

(1) Pan Aji, the owner of Panji Fish Shop, sold jellyfish to Liu Xingfa at a price of sixteen yuan per dan on the sixth of this month, while the limited price was thirteen yuan, three jiao, and three fen per dan. They were reported and all three were prosecuted. (2) Xuan Zhijie opened the Taiwan Pharmacy at No. 522 Fuzhou Road and sold goods at prices exceeding the limit in September. (3) Ma Shubiao opened the Shengheji Pharmacy and did not sell western green medicine at the limited price. It was discovered by the police station on the tenth of this month. (4) Yao Zhicheng, a clerk in the Yuchang Western Medicine Store, and his boss engaged in black market operations of Western medicine in September and October, using telephone transactions and recording transactions with notes instead of logging them in the account books. This was discovered by the police station. (5) Zhang Jinqian, the owner of the Longli Rice Store at No. 24, Zixia Road, and his clerk Zhu Xiaogou sold three dou of rice to Chen Jinrong on the 17th of this month, exceeding the price limit by two yuan and one jiao.

### Important Medicines for Daily Use Should Be Declared and Registered by Category

[Our Newspaper's Report] The Shanghai Municipal Medicines Adjustment and Supply Temporary Committee recently sent a letter to the Shanghai New Pharmaceutical Industry Association and the Hospital Federation, requiring the declaration and registration of important medical medicines for daily use by category. The medicines will include simple pills, tablets, ampoules, and other preparations. Each drug dealer, pharmaceutical factory, and importer of medicines shall submit a table showing the inventory, monthly import and export volume, production, sales, consumption, and final inventory to the association, which will then submit it to the Municipal Health and Social Bureaus for record. For ordinary medicines within the scope of the declaration, the retail sale per person per day shall not exceed three days' worth, and the purchase and sale of injections shall require a doctor's prescription.

### Da Kang Pharmacy Hoarding Medicines; Manager and Accountant Apprehended

The 10th Brigade of the Greater Shanghai Youth Service Corps discovered a clandestine warehouse of Da Kang Pharmacy located at No. 15, Ren'an Lane, Luxiangyuan Road, Nanshi on the evening of the 23rd. A large quantity of Western medicines was found to be hoarded for speculative purposes and prepared for smuggling out of the country. The shop owner Wang Rongchun (from Hangzhou, 25 years old), the business manager Xue Chong'ao, and the chief accountant Wang Zufan fled that night. Xue and Wang were eventually apprehended yesterday by the team. They confessed to engaging in black market activities and exceeding the price limits set on August 19th. The brigade sent all the account books and the criminals to the police station for legal proceedings.

### Yan Jinlai Prosecuted for Hoarding Penicillin

[Our Newspaper's Report] Yan Jinlai, from Hebei, was found by the police to be hoarding 270 doses of penicillin, which were placed in boxes and stored in the Tongcheng Merchant House at No. 42, Pentang Lane. He was arrested and sent to the District Attorney's Office, which has now completed its investigation and prosecuted him on charges of hoarding for speculation.

### Ministry of Industry and Commerce Revokes Registration of Huamei Industrial Trading Company

[Our Newspaper's Nanjing 26th Dispatch] According to the Ministry of Industry and Commerce, the Shanghai China Huamei Industrial Trading Company was found to be engaged in businesses beyond its registered scope, violating Article 22 of the current Company Law. In addition to being transferred to the court for trial and punishment according to law, the Ministry of Industry and Commerce has revoked its original license and publicly announced the cancellation of its company registration.

### Xin Feng Station Road Repaired; Traffic Resumed from 10 PM Last Night

Five Dead and Three Injured in a Train Collision Tragedy

After the freight train collision at Xinfeng Station on the Beijing-Shanghai Line on the morning of the 25th, all passenger and freight trains on the line were paralyzed. Yesterday, the extra trains from Beijing to Shanghai temporarily terminated at Zhenjiang. The Shanghai General Bureau issued an announcement yesterday morning that ticket sales for all passenger trains would be suspended. More than a thousand passengers stranded at the blocked stations waited all day, looking anxious. Zhou Weidong, Deputy Director of the Transportation Department of the Railway Bureau, and Fan Xichou, Chief of the Nanjing Locomotive Section, rushed to Xinfeng Station to supervise the staff of the Qishuyan Machinery Factory to speed up the repairs. According to the Railway Bureau, the damaged road surface was repaired by evening. The Shanghai Station dispatched the first train directly to Nanjing at 10 p.m., but the crowding situation has not yet returned to normal. According to the bureau, five people were killed and three injured in the train collision tragedy. The deceased were Zhu Bangrong, the driver of train 503; the fireman Zhang Ji; Zhao Yankang; and two soldiers on the train. The bodies have been transported to Beijing. The slightly injured were the driver and fireman of train 508, who were sent to the railway hospital for emergency treatment and discharged yesterday. Another fireman, Shan Zhenyou, was seriously injured and his life is in danger. The Railway Bureau is paying attention to investigating the responsibility for the accident.

### National Cotton Joint Purchasing Committee Decides on Detailed Measures for Exchanging Yarn for Cotton; Cotton Merchants Can Also Exchange Stored Cotton Pro Rata

The National Cotton Joint Purchasing Committee held a meeting at the National Bank at 4 PM on the 26th. The principles for the Joint Purchasing Office to purchase domestic cotton were decided as follows: (1) One piece of 20-count cotton yarn will be used as the standard to exchange for two pieces of cotton needed for 20-count cotton yarn. The deficiency will be paid with Gold Yuan banknotes. (2) In order to encourage cotton farmers to smoothly promote the purchasing work, a certain amount of incentive money will be issued in the form of Gold Yuan notes, depending on the situation. (3) The request from the Hankou area to store cotton for three months was rejected. If the purchasing work proceeds smoothly, they may request the responsible authorities of the Joint Purchasing Committee. (4) The National Bank has already approved the allocation of 10,000 pieces of cotton yarn, which can be picked up today and transported to the cotton-producing areas to engage in the purchase of domestic cotton. In the future, if cotton yarn is insufficient, the National Bank can allocate general cotton yarn from the previous round and cotton yarn from US aid cotton cloth, and the Joint Venture Office can allocate cotton yarn for domestic sales to exchange for cotton. (5) Cotton merchants in Shanghai who have stored cotton can also exchange it according to the above exchange ratio. It is also learned that Director Liu Gongyun of the committee will go to Beijing today to meet with President Weng, present the above-mentioned decision methods, and ask for deliberation and approval. It is also said that President Weng is expected to approve the Joint Purchasing Office to improve the purchasing methods according to the actual situation if there are difficulties in the purchasing work of the committee in the future.

### He Haoruo Returns to Shanghai to Convene Symposium; First Batch of Enemy and Puppet Real Estate Sales Has 58 Units Paid; Lane Houses Will Find Other Appropriate Measures

He Haoruo, Director of the Executive Yuan's Enemy and Puppet Property Handling Committee, flew back to Shanghai the day before yesterday. Yesterday morning, he went to the Central Trust Bureau to invite members of the Enemy and Puppet Property Review Committee and the Real Estate Valuation Committee, as well as the responsible personnel of the bureau, to hold a symposium. First, He reported on the actual supervision situation in Pingjin and other places, expressing his feelings. Then, he conveyed the President's and President Weng's instructions on the handling policy, hoping to speed up the process and complete the clearance within six months. In the afternoon, he continued to discuss various issues with the responsible heads of the Qingli Office. Regarding the sale of enemy and puppet real estate, a proper method will be sought for the lane houses where general public education personnel and ordinary residents live, so as to take into account the housing problems of a larger number of residents. As for garden houses and independent houses, the established methods will still be strictly implemented. Currently, among the first 80 units sold in the city, a total of 58 units have been purchased by current residents, receiving more than 3.65 million yuan in earnest money, which proves that the current method is proceeding smoothly and the estimated prices are quite reasonable. As for the remaining unsold houses, they will be put up for public auction soon.

### Zhu Pingdeng Conducts On-Site Survey of the Environment of Five New Residential Areas

[Our Newspaper's Report] Since the launch of the "Ten Thousand Houses in Shanghai" campaign by the Municipal Housing Construction Promotion Committee, all parties have responded enthusiastically, and significant results have been achieved. It is now learned that the Land Administration Bureau recently plans to demarcate five new residential areas based on the aerial survey maps measured by the bureau: (1) Near Daxilu in the West District. (2) Near Jinjilu in the South District. (3) Near Dongjiadu in the Pudong District. (4) Near Huangxinglu, Yangshupu in the East District. (5) Near Dongtiyuhuilu in the North District. Director Zhu of the Land Administration Bureau yesterday invited Xiang Changzhao, Secretary-General of the Council, Chen Shukun, Secretary-General of the Real Estate Industry Association, Xu Xinghan, Director of the Public Works Bureau, Zeng Dingceng, Director of the Works Bureau, and Zeng Guangliang, Director of the Land Administration Bureau, to conduct on-site surveys of the environment and water and electricity supply in each district at 3 PM yesterday. They all expressed satisfaction. The total area of the five districts is about 1,000 mu.

### Fuxing New Ship Arrives in Shanghai Today; French Mail Ship Weighs Anchor and Returns to Europe

[Our Newspaper's Report] The Fuxing Shipping Company purchased a new ship from the United States, and another one will arrive in Shanghai today, mooring at buoys 14 and 15.

Also, the French mail ship Andre Lebon, which arrived in Shanghai from Marseille the day before yesterday (Monday), is scheduled to weigh anchor from the Gonghexing Wharf this afternoon and return to Europe. A total of 188 passengers from the city will take the ship to Hong Kong and France, and more than 80 tourists from Saigon to Japan will take the ship to Japan for sightseeing and then return to Saigon via Shanghai on the same ship.

### Supervisor Jiang Cracks Down on Absurd and Unfounded Publications

Jiang Jingguo, Economic Supervisor of the Shanghai District, believes that in the past month, many books and pictorials related to him have been published in Shanghai, and their content is mostly absurd and unfounded. After Jiang collected and reviewed them, he allowed the "Jiang Jingguo Lun" published by the United Pictorial Publishing House to be published and circulated, as it is a purely political thesis. All others must be prohibited.

### Fish Market Changes Transactions to Direct Distribution to Fishmongers

In order to cooperate with the government's price limit policy, evenly distribute sales, and eliminate disputes over rushing to buy fish, the Shanghai Fish Market, after inviting relevant groups, jointly decided to change the transaction method and directly distribute to fishmongers, which was implemented starting yesterday morning.

### Copper Coins in Short Supply; Snapped Up Upon Release; Long Lines in Front of the Issuing Bureau

[Our Newspaper's Report] Since the release of one-cent copper coins a few days ago, citizens have been very interested in them and flocked to the issuing bureau of the Central Bank on the Bund to exchange them. It is said that at the beginning of the issuance a few days ago, each person could still exchange for ten yuan, but from yesterday onwards, there were so many people seeking to exchange that the Central Bank imposed restrictions, limiting each person to one yuan. According to a responsible person at the issuing bureau of the Central Bank, the production of these copper coins is currently limited. The Central Bank receives about ten boxes a day (each box contains 200 yuan of one-cent copper coins, totaling 20,000 coins). Yesterday, only 1.88 million coins arrived, which is far from meeting the demand. A long queue appeared in front of the issuing bureau yesterday, stretching all the way to Beijing Road. According to those who exchanged, the one-cent copper coins exchanged for ten yuan in Gold Yuan notes totaled 1,000 coins, weighing six catties. However, copper and iron shops in Hongkou are offering six and a half yuan per catty for the exchange of purple copper, so the value of ten yuan in copper coins has reached 39 yuan. Therefore, as soon as the copper coins are released, they may be collected and treasured. As for the fifty-cent silver coins, they will not be released until the beginning of next month. There is no definite date for when they will be available on the market.

### Eleven Important Criminals From the Special Tribunal Escorted to Suzhou Prison for Execution

[Our Newspaper's Report] The detention center of the Special Criminal Tribunal is too small and the number of criminals is increasing daily, making it impossible to accommodate them. Today, eleven important criminals, including Wu Guozhen, were escorted to Suzhou Prison for execution by police officers from the Second Team of the Security Police.

### Corruption Case of the Fuel Management Committee to Be Debated in Court This Morning

[Our Newspaper's Report] The case of corruption and fraud involving officials of the Fuel Management Committee colluding with merchants has become clear after two trials by Judge Xie Zhiying of the District Court. In order to give the defendants a full opportunity to defend themselves, a court debate is scheduled to begin at 9 AM this morning. If the defendants do not present new evidence, the court debate can be concluded in court and a judgment scheduled to be pronounced.

### One Hundred and Fifty Drug Offenders with Lighter Cases Granted Bail

[Our Newspaper's Report] After careful consideration by the District Court, it is planned to temporarily grant bail to 150 defendants in drug cases with minor circumstances. Those with serious circumstances will continue to be detained. As of yesterday, 70 people had been released on bail, and the rest will be released on bail separately within a few days.

### Fire on Yangzhou Road; More Than Seventy Sheds Destroyed

[Our Newspaper's Report] There were thatched sheds built along the area of Yifuli at the intersection of Yangzhou Road and Jiangpu Road, densely packed, about two to three hundred. Unexpectedly, at around 5:50 yesterday morning, just as the autumn rain was continuous, a fire broke out unexpectedly, and thick smoke rose straight up, with flames soaring into the sky. In an instant, more than seventy thatched sheds were reduced to ashes, and seven houses at No. 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, and 23 of Yifuli were also affected. When the fire was raging, nearby residents, supporting the old and carrying the young, fled outward in great disorder. Fire brigades from Yangshupu and the Central District drove pump trucks to the scene to extinguish the fire, which was extinguished after more than two hours. After receiving the report, the police station immediately dispatched a large number of police officers to suppress the fire. The cause of the fire is currently under investigation.

### Restaurants With Music and Dancing Equipment Are Ordered by the Finance Bureau to Collect Entertainment Tax

[Our Newspaper's Report] The Finance Bureau believes that some restaurants have music and dancing equipment, which should be planned for taxation. It has ordered the entertainment and banquet sections to compile a clear list and forward it to various tax collection offices for detailed investigation. The work has been completed. All restaurants and dining halls with music and dance floor equipment will be taxed according to the prescribed tax rate for entertainment. Only restaurants or dining halls that only provide meals will be taxed according to the banquet tax, but the principle should be to effectively separate the music and dancing equipment.

### Wine and Food Supply Reduced; Single Diners Extremely Anxious

[Our Newspaper's Report] Recently, the supply of various wine and food restaurants has been greatly reduced, and diners must go early to grab food, otherwise they will not be able to eat anything. Yesterday was also the day designated as one day a week without eating meat after the city implemented the thrift campaign. All slaughterhouses stopped slaughtering livestock such as pigs, cattle, and sheep, and meat was nowhere to be found in the small vegetable markets. There was already little variety of dishes in Chinese and Western restaurants on weekdays, and meat was also stopped yesterday. Only two kinds of meat dishes, fish and duck, were supplied, and the quantity was also very small. Therefore, most restaurants do not provide banquets, and some simply close for a day. Diners who "eat out" are greatly distressed, and single people who are usually customers of set meals are even more anxious.

### Social Bureau Orders Cigarette Industry to Stop Using Transparent Paper

[Our Newspaper's Report] The China-America Tobacco Factory previously submitted a document to the Social Bureau requesting that the use of transparent paper for cigarette decoration be abolished in order to save foreign exchange. The Social Bureau approved its request and has ordered the Cigarette Industry Association that, during this period of strict economy, the use of transparent paper should be stopped after the member factories have used up their inventory.

### Female Globetrotting Aviator Flies Directly to Tokyo

[Our Newspaper's Report] British female globetrotting aviator Mrs. Maud flew her plane on a round-the-world flight, taking off from London on August 18. She stopped in Calcutta due to engine damage and was delayed for seven weeks for repairs. After the repairs, she continued flying east and arrived in Hong Kong on the 24th of this month. She was originally scheduled to come to Shanghai and transfer to ", but it is now learned that she flew directly to Tokyo the day before yesterday. Mrs. Maud, the mother of an eighteen-month-old girl, firmly believes that she will complete the entire journey and become the world's first female globetrotting aviator.

### Streetcar and Public Bus Collide; Several Men and Women Slightly Injured

[Our Newspaper's Report] At around 8 AM yesterday morning, streetcar No. 97 on the Eighth Route, driven by Kang Banglian, collided with a public bus on the Third Route driven by Qu Jingwu when passing through the Bund on Beijing Road. Five men and women were slightly injured on the spot, including ticket clerk Huang Fuding and male and female passengers Lang Xiuzhen, Shi Ruidi (female), Zheng Xuekang, and Lin Chunyuan (male). They were later sent to the hospital by people and vehicles for treatment.

### Verdict in the "Mystery of Madness" Case; Yuan Baoying and Huang Yingbang Sentenced to Imprisonment

[Our Newspaper's Report] The freedom infringement part of the "Mystery of Madness" case was pronounced yesterday by Judge Wu Shaochang of the District Court. Yuan Baoying was found to have jointly deprived others of their freedom by illegal means and was sentenced to one year of imprisonment. Huang Yingbang was found to have jointly deprived others of their freedom by illegal means and was sentenced to six months of imprisonment. After the verdict was pronounced in court, it was also announced that Yuan Baoying sent her husband Yan Peixing to the hospital on New Year's Eve and applied to the court for a declaration of incompetence, which was obviously a planned conspiracy to plot property. She is now sentenced to one year of imprisonment. If she does not accept the verdict, she can appeal within ten days. According to the report, Yuan and Yan Peixing have already divorced. When the case was tried last time, Yuan was detained for shouting in court. Yuan was brought to the court yesterday to hear the verdict and requested bail, but it was not allowed, and she was ordered to be returned to custody. The second defendant, Dr. Huang Yingbang, was released on bail and did not appear in court yesterday to hear the verdict.

### Strengthen the Promotion of the Diligence and Construction Movement; First Propaganda Conference Held Yesterday; Fang Zhi Explains the Importance of Practicing Diligence and Thrift to Overcome Difficulties

The Propaganda Committee for Promoting the Diligence and Construction Movement in Shanghai held its first meeting at the Shanghai Club on Shaanxi South Road at 9 AM yesterday to strengthen the promotion of the Diligence and Construction Movement. Chairman Fang Zhi said in his speech: "At this time of tense military situation on the front lines, some people in society are pessimistic and fearful, and some selfish and self-interested profiteers are taking the opportunity to undermine economic management and hide goods, which has resulted in rampant black market rebellions. This phenomenon poses a great obstacle to the future of suppression and construction. The way to solve it is to vigorously practice diligence and thrift to overcome difficulties." Fang then emphasized the significance of diligence and thrift, that is, to persuade people to be diligent and thrifty for the country and the nation, not for their own selfish interests. He also encouraged the members to do their best to shoulder the task of propaganda to achieve complete success. Then, representatives Jin Longzhang, Zhou Feicheng, and Yu Wen expressed their opinions, all of which were sincere and concise. In the end, it was resolved to mobilize all cultural, journalistic, educational, entertainment, broadcasting, and other circles to continue to fully expand the propaganda of the Diligence and Thrift Movement. The meeting adjourned at 12 noon.

### Shanghai Briefs

Yesterday, 52 refugees from Austria, Beilan, Germany, Italy, Argentina, Santo Domingo, and other countries left Shanghai on the Andre Lebon from the Gonghexing Wharf.

In order to facilitate the public, starting from November 1, the public only needs to verbally report the amount of remittance and the location of exchange when remitting "small remittances" to the post office, and there is no need to fill in the remittance application form.

Liu Xuehai, Shanghai Jiangsu Special Commissioner for Drug Prohibition, was transferred back to the Ministry, and Chen Songping was appointed to fill the vacancy, and also served as the director of the Ministry's office in Shanghai.

Xie Chengjiang, director of the Chuansha Office of Pudong Daily, was arrested and sentenced to two months in prison. The president of the newspaper and others yesterday hosted a reception for the Shanghai press to appeal for unanimous support.

In yesterday's news about the sentencing of Tongji students Wang Zongyi and others to imprisonment, "Tongji" was a mistake for "Jinda".

### Weather Forecast

Central China: Cloudy with rain, drizzle turning cloudy, cold, light fog in the evening, strong north wind, fog in the morning.

Shanghai: Cloudy with intermittent rain and cold, gradually turning better, light fog in the evening, moderate northeast to east wind, light fog in the morning.

East China Sea: Cloudy with rain in the south, turning cloudy, strong north wind to east wind, sea waves, light fog along the coast, local fog in the morning.

On the 26th, the minimum temperature was 16.2 degrees Celsius (59.3 degrees Fahrenheit), and the maximum temperature was 17.1 degrees Celsius (62.8 degrees Fahrenheit).

### The Problem of Finding Schools for Students Evacuated from Yantai to Shanghai is Expected to be Resolved; Ministry of Education Prepares to Establish Schools Along the Zhejiang-Jiangxi Line to Accommodate Them; Shanghai Relief Committee Provides Hot Porridge Twice Daily

[Our Newspaper] Approximately 2,200 middle school students and primary and secondary school teachers and their families who evacuated from Yantai to Shanghai are temporarily residing in the Shandong Fellow-Provincials Association on Ximen Road. Other refugees who came with them have sought refuge with relatives and friends in Shanghai. Yesterday, representatives of the refugee students and teachers went to the Supervisor's Office, the Municipal Government, the Social Affairs Bureau, and the Education Bureau to request assistance in resolving issues related to their livelihood and schooling. Zhao Lantings, the principal of Zhongzheng Middle School and a member of the Yantai City Church Council, was sent to Beijing to petition the Ministry of Education to arrange for their placement. Mayor Wu dispatched Municipal Government Counselor Li Jianhua to the Shandong Fellow-Provincials Association yesterday afternoon to express his concern and conduct an investigation, promising to provide assistance and relief in all aspects. The Municipal Relief Committee has deployed mobile porridge carts since yesterday afternoon to provide hot porridge twice daily. Nearby residents have also generously donated food and cash. Regarding the schooling issue for the more than 2,000 students, it is reported that the Ministry of Education is preparing to establish ten joint middle schools along the Zhejiang-Jiangxi line to accommodate refugee students from various regions. The group of students from Yantai who arrived in Shanghai will stay in Shanghai for about a week before being assigned to these schools. Registration will begin today.

Refugees Falling into the Water is a Common Sight

Yesterday, our reporter interviewed Zou Jian, the Speaker of the Yantai Municipal Assembly, who led the evacuation to Shanghai. He stated that those evacuated to Shanghai included 1,900 students from eight middle schools in Yantai: Guohua, Zhongzheng, Chongde, Chongzheng, Yiwen, Jianshi, Zhifu, and Zhenguang, as well as 300 primary and secondary school teachers and 200 family members of the teachers, including approximately 400 to 500 female students. They evacuated from Yantai on the 12th aboard the Anda Wheel steamer. Prior inquiries regarding the withdrawal to responsible authorities were unanswered. Later, it was learned that the families of soldiers stationed in Fushan, 30 miles outside Yantai, were evacuating, and 40,000 refugees from the area followed suit to Yantai. The students then packed their bags and negotiated for ships to evacuate. At that time, the coastal docks were crowded with approximately 15,000 refugees waiting for ships to escape, exposed to the elements. Every time a small sampan or similar vessel approached, they would rush to climb aboard, resulting in capsized boats and people falling into the water, with many forced to jump into the sea. The shore was filled with cries of despair, a shocking and unbearable sight. Many of those who ventured out to sea in small boats have not been heard from since, their whereabouts unknown. The population of Yantai is 140,000. Approximately 20,000 people evacuated to Qingdao. No fighting occurred in the city, and the large airport and factories, known as the second best in the country in terms of equipment, were not destroyed.

Nearby Residents Generously Donate

They traveled to Shanghai via Qingdao on the same ship. They had not eaten for several days en route, causing more than a hundred people to fall ill. The ship docked at the Qiujiang Wharf in this city on the afternoon of the 25th. The port command provided four vehicles to transport luggage. The students walked empty-handed and arrived at the Shandong Fellow-Provincials Association on Ximen Road at 11 PM. Because it was late and no one was there to receive them, they spent the night in the courtyard in the rain. Because they had not eaten for many days on the ship and could not purchase food after arriving ashore, Zhu Liqing, the chief of the 41st Bao of Madang Road, near the Shandong Fellow-Provincials Association, and Wu Rongfa, the chief of the 17th Jia, voluntarily mobilized residents in the area to cook and donate hot porridge. On the 26th, they cooked and delivered hot porridge and pickled vegetables for them to share. When they went to express their gratitude, they discovered that some of the donors were street vendors and rickshaw pullers. They were deeply moved by the precious enthusiasm of their compatriots and were moved to tears. They now hope that the authorities can resolve the schooling issue for the students as soon as possible to prevent them from wasting their youth and studies.

### Exhibition of 40,000 Pots of Famous Chrysanthemums; Opening Ceremony on the Sixth of Next Month; Fuxing Park's Fountain to be Remodeled

[Our Newspaper] The annual Chrysanthemum Exhibition organized by the city's Garden Management Office is scheduled to officially open on the sixth of next month at Fuxing Park and close on the 14th. As in previous years, leading figures from all sectors and members of the press will be invited to visit the exhibition one day before the opening ceremony. It is reported that the exhibition will feature more chrysanthemums than in previous years, including over 30,000 pots of famous chrysanthemums of over 400 varieties from the Bureau of Public Works' nurseries, as well as those from the Railway Bureau and private farms, totaling approximately 40,000 pots. Among them, the "Hanging Cliff Chrysanthemum" and the "Standing Chrysanthemum" with 169 colored flower heads are particularly rare and famous varieties. The organizers will strive for a novel and unique layout design for this exhibition. The fountain in Fuxing Park has recently been remodeled to raise the water pipes to expand the range of the spray. The chrysanthemums will be scattered around the water pipes, creating an immersive experience for the audience, as if they were viewing flowers in front of a waterfall, which will undoubtedly enhance their enjoyment. To make the exhibition more accessible, the ticket price will only be 20 cents. A service center will also be set up inside the park to sell exhibited potted chrysanthemums and photographs of famous chrysanthemums.

## Page 5

### Detailed Rules for Importing Goods with Paid Foreign Exchange Released and Implemented Yesterday by the Transportation Control Committee

The Transportation Control Committee announced the following criteria yesterday morning for processing import applications for foreign orders with paid foreign exchange:

(1) Applications in Shanghai should be submitted directly to the Visa Office of the Committee. Applications in other cities should be submitted to the local District Office or Branch Office of the Committee. There is no need for designated banks to transfer them.

(2) Applicants should first obtain blank import permit application forms (in quadruplicate) from the Visa Office or District Office and fill them out according to the instructions.

(3) When submitting the application form, in addition to submitting a certificate from the foreign paying bank or a receipt from the foreign manufacturer as proof, the following documents should also be attached: 1. Foreign invoice or purchase order; 2. If a portion of the payment has not been made and is being processed according to the "Central Bank Foreign Currency Deposit Payment Method," the original certificate from the deposit bank should be attached.

(4) For orders with only a portion of the payment made, the unpaid portion should be handled separately according to the following two items: A. If the ordered goods can be divided by unit, the paid portion will be allowed for import, and the unpaid portion will not be allowed for import. B. If the paid portion and the unpaid portion cannot be divided, the entire order will not be allowed for import.

(5) Applicants who are applying to import the goods listed in supplementary tables (1), (2), (3) A, and (2) may fill out the same "Import Application Form" to apply for all types of goods.

(6) Import permits for this type of case should be numbered with the month and day, and stamped with the Chinese and English seal "Paid Foreign Exchange Case" for identification.

[Our Newspaper] The Jianghai Customs has been ordered to handle goods imported without a permit that shipped from abroad between October 1st and November 20th of last year as follows: except for cases that have been settled by confiscation, the remaining goods should be ordered to be re-exported without confiscation. Furthermore, they must be re-exported within 60 days from November 1st of this year, and there is no need to submit a re-export permit from the Transportation Control Committee. Those that are not re-exported within the deadline will be considered abandoned and will be confiscated according to regulations.

### Tightening of Credit

Yesterday, the money market continued to show signs of tightness. Demand was strong, while supply continued to decline, as it had the previous day. Market interest rates ranged from 2.1% to 6.55% per month, an increase compared to the previous day. The shortage of cash was more pronounced than before, due to the outflow of speculative funds. Discounts on 100-yuan and 50-yuan banknotes have reappeared in the market.

### Reduced Rice Arrivals; No Transactions in the Market

Rice arrivals have decreased because some producing areas are still prohibited from purchasing and transporting rice, even with purchasing permits, which has further reduced the supply to this city. Yesterday, 551.5 shi of rice arrived at the Nanshi Market and 870 shi arrived at the Beishi Market, totaling 1,421.5 shi for both markets. There were still no transactions in the market. Market quotations were 20.78 yuan for white japonica rice, 20.90 yuan for yang-hsien rice, 17 yuan for brown rice, and 19.23 yuan for bu-hsien rice. Transactions of miscellaneous grains remained suspended. 100 bags of Chongming sand soybeans were distributed at 10.16 yuan per bag without the bags. Other transactions were not opened.

[Our Newspaper] The French mail ship "André Lebon" left Shanghai for Europe this afternoon, carrying a large quantity of miscellaneous grains, including 3,600 bags of rapeseed and 3,664 bags of sesame seeds.

### Clearing House Suspends Operations; Authorities Claim to Have No Knowledge

It is reported that in order to reduce the rate of currency circulation and tighten credit, the authorities will suspend clearing house operations for bank and money shop instruments throughout the country starting from the 15th of next month, and all transactions will be conducted with cash and gold yuan. Yesterday morning, reporters from the Joint Credit Information Center inquired with relevant officials at the Shanghai Gold Control Bureau, the Municipal Bankers Association, and the Clearing House. They replied that the suspension of clearing house operations is currently still under consideration, and none of the relevant departments have received orders from the authorities.

Further Information: Rumors are spreading that the government will soon suspend clearing house operations for grain instruments throughout the country. The Shanghai Gold Control Bureau and the Central Bank both stated that they had no knowledge of this. When asked by reporters about this matter yesterday morning, Vice President Liu Gongyun stated that he had not heard of it.

### Total Assets and Liabilities of Banks and Money Shops for August

The Auditing Department of the Central Bank released the statistical table of total assets and liabilities of banks and money shops in Shanghai for August of the 37th year, totaling: (1) Assets: 168,610,39.04 yuan; (2) Liabilities: 166,477,564.18 yuan; (3) Deposits: 40,162,627.51 yuan; (4) Loans: 54,665,988.90 yuan (unit: gold yuan).

### Cotton Cloth Market Active; Daily Sales of Three Major Cloth Stores Each Reach Approximately 1,000 Bolts

Yesterday, the cotton cloth market was active due to firm and rising prices of goods from other areas. Furthermore, with the price controls being relaxed, although still under discussion, public sentiment has been stimulated. With the upcoming identity card exchange, citizens are still flocking to buy cotton cloth. The daily sales of the three major and well-known cloth stores in the city each reach approximately 1,000 bolts. With solid inventories from the past, they are still able to maintain their business. However, ordinary small and medium-sized cloth stores are selling more than they are receiving, and their inventories are dwindling. Fortunately, the Textile Construction Company distributes goods, currently only to retail cloth stores, which is a major source of supply. In addition, the dyeing and weaving industries continue to distribute cloth, so they are barely able to maintain their business. However, they still feel that the amount of distributed goods is not enough, and the patterns of the high-end colored cloth, indanthrene drill cloth, and ordinary cotton cloth sold daily in limited quantities to identity card holders are all old.

Yesterday, the Textile Construction Company distributed the usual bolts of cloth, including 29.5-yard semi-finished vice brand serge at 23.5 yuan per bolt, limited to (dyeing factories) for purchase. Also, 12-pound large trumpet, Yanghe, and Wufu brand fine cloth were all sold at 23.3 yuan per bolt, limited to (retail stores) for purchase. In addition, large size 6000 number gray cloth was 25 yuan, and Jumping Carp Jingyuan straight tribute gabardine was 29.6 yuan, both limited to (retail stores) for purchase. There were also American cloth 014-3 and 5 printed stripe cloth at 1 yuan per meter, and 015-73 color cloth at 1 yuan per foot, both limited to (retail stores) for purchase. In addition, there were many applicants for cotton毛衫 and trousers, Textile Construction gabardine, etc.

The fourth batch of goods allocated by the Dyeing and Weaving Industry Commissioned Association amounted to approximately 9,000 bolts. Purchase procedures began yesterday afternoon, but the amount that could be purchased was still limited to 10 bolts per household. If a household received 20 bolts in the previous allocation, the allocation for this period would be temporarily suspended, but they could still purchase as usual in the next period.

### Association Requests Instructions on Issuing Outbound Certificates

Further Information: The Cotton Cloth Industry Association recently received numerous requests from cotton cloth merchants in Shanghai from various regions for the issuance of outbound certificates for cotton cloth, in order to promptly supply the needs of various regions. The association checked the provisions of Articles 3, 4, and 6 of the "Measures for Applying for Transportation Permits for Outbound Materials in the Shanghai Area" announced by the Supervisor's Office on October 8th. Before issuing certificates, the actual situation in various regions and the supply and demand situation in this city should be determined to set limits. The association was unsure whether these limits should be reported to the Supervisor's Office for approval and has submitted a letter to the Supervisor's Office inquiring about this matter.

### Black Market for Cotton; Holders Unwilling to Sell

Further Information: Yesterday, the cotton yarn market continued to be suspended. The cotton market situation was very firm. Transaction prices exceeded the controlled price by more than double. In particular, Zhoupu seed cotton was more popular. Cotton merchants and factories in Shanghai sent personnel to the producing areas to rush purchases in the past two days, causing the black market to rise to an unprecedented level, and holders were unwilling to sell.

### National Cotton Joint Purchasing Office to Transport 12,000 Bales of Cotton Yarn to Producing Areas to Exchange for Cotton

The National Cotton Joint Purchasing Office is still finding it difficult to start its cotton purchasing business in various regions. It is reported that the purchasing offices established by the office in various regions have not received any cotton deliveries in the days since they opened. In order to solve the above difficulties, the office has decided to consult with the Central Bank to borrow 12,000 bales of cotton yarn to be transported to the producing areas for exchange.

It is reported that after the cotton yarn arrives in the cotton producing areas, the office will still handle the exchange procedures with local merchants. After the cotton obtained from the first batch of exchanges is collected, it will be distributed to the yarn factories according to the original proportion of capital contribution for the exchange of cotton cloth. The cloth obtained from the exchange will be transported to various regions according to the estimated results of the first phase of cotton collection in various regions for the second batch of exchanges. On the other hand, it will consult with the Cotton Production Improvement Office and the Farmers Bank to proceed.

### The 15th Annual Meeting of the Chinese Institute of Engineers and the Joint Annual Meeting of Various Professional Engineering Societies Opened in Taipei Yesterday; Thematic Discussions to Begin Today

[Our Newspaper Taipei, 26th Dispatch] The 15th Annual Meeting of the Chinese Institute of Engineers and the Joint Annual Meeting of Various Professional Engineering Societies opened at 9:00 AM on the 26th at Taipei Zhongshan Hall. The meeting was presided over by President Mao Yisheng, with over 1,500 attendees, breaking the record for previous annual meetings. Attendees came from as far away as Shenyang, Dihua, and Jing, Shanghai, Sui, Han, Qingdao, Fuzhou, Nanchang, Changsha, Hangzhou, Hengyang, Ping, Tianjin, Chongqing, Guiyang, Kunming, Nanning, Xi'an, Tanggu, Wuzhou, Baisha, Suzhou, Jiading, Liuzhou, and Tianshui, undeterred by the long distances. In his opening address, Mao pointed out that the Taiwanese people have shed 50 years of blood and sweat, devoting themselves to construction, but have not enjoyed true prosperity. He stated that future construction in Taiwan should have four major premises: (1) Engage in people's livelihood construction in coordination with the whole country. (2) Make construction achieve true prosperity and universally improve the lives of the Taiwanese people. (3) Construction in Taiwan should be driven by Taiwanese personnel. (4) Make Taiwan become a national industrial focus. Wei Daoming then gave a speech, saying that construction in Taiwan is mainly driven by manpower, and he hoped that experts would conduct research and provide guidance. He Yingqin encouraged Taiwan to become a major national defense industry base and hoped that experts would pay special attention to this. Chen Qida stated that whether in terms of politics, national defense, people's livelihood, or morality, China must first be industrialized before it can be improved. This is also the key to China turning from weak to strong, and the responsibility lies with the engineers. After speeches by Huang Chaoqin and You Mijian, the ceremony concluded. The report on association affairs began at 2 PM.

[Our Newspaper Taipei, 26th Dispatch] The Engineers Association held a report on association affairs this afternoon, presided over by Vice President Gu Yufang. First, General Secretary Gu Yuquan reported on important association affairs and the implementation of resolutions from previous sessions. Next, General Accountant Zhu Qiqing, Editor-in-Chief Wu Chengluo, and heads of various branch associations gave reports. The meeting then adjourned. Chairman Wei hosted a banquet for the attendees at 7 PM. Thematic discussions will begin on the 27th.

### Municipal Scholarship Unified Review Committee Schedules Review Meetings

[Our Newspaper] The Shanghai Municipal Scholarship Unified Review Committee was unable to proceed with the scholarship review work as scheduled because the list of tuition-free students from some schools was not submitted by the date stipulated by the committee. It is reported that the committee has now scheduled to hold review committee meetings for universities, middle schools, and primary schools at the Municipal Normal School on Madang Road on the 28th, 29th, and 30th of this month. Once the review work is completed, scholarships will be distributed immediately. It is also learned that the committee has now moved its office to the Municipal Education Bureau at 80 Madang Road, telephone 80050-8, extension.

### In Response to Peking University's Suspension of Classes and Strikes, Normal University and Tsinghua University Continue to Express Their Views

[Our Newspaper Beiping, 6th Dispatch] The professors of Normal University decided at a meeting last night to take five days of leave starting today and to send representatives to contact other schools to jointly strive for reasonable treatment. The professors of Tsinghua University decided at a meeting to temporarily not suspend classes but requested (1) that the government provide two months of salary as a loan, and (2) that each person be allocated two tons of winter coal. The lecturers and teaching assistants of the school decided to suspend teaching for five days starting today. Faculty and staff of the private Fu Jen Catholic University have also made demands to the school to improve their treatment. Peking University students decided today to take a total leave of five days. Tsinghua Normal University students will hold a meeting tonight to decide whether to also take a total leave to support the professors.

### Provisional Middle Schools to be Established Along the Zhejiang-Jiangxi Line to Accommodate Refugee Students from Various Regions

[Our Newspaper] He Shijun, the director of the Ministry of Education, who was previously sent to Shanghai to plan for the living relief of refugee students, has returned to Beijing after contacting various parties. It is reported that the Ministry of Education has decided to establish ten joint middle schools along the Zhejiang-Jiangxi line to accommodate refugee students from various regions. The more than 2,000 middle school students who recently evacuated from Yantai to Shanghai will also be assigned to these schools.

### Education Briefs

The Geographical Education Research Association of China was established last year in Shanghai and currently has approximately 400 members at home and abroad. The association is scheduled to hold its first annual meeting at 1:00 PM on the 31st at the auditorium of the Yucai Middle School of the Municipality, Shanhai Pass Road.

The Municipal Education Bureau, upon order of the Ministry of Education, is selecting excellent public and private middle schools in this city to serve as model schools. Personnel will be sent to inspect various schools immediately, and the bureau will select schools and submit them to the ministry for announcement.

Central News Agency Beiping Dispatch: Peking University is currently seeking historical materials related to the school to be exhibited at the 50th anniversary celebration on December 17th.

Nanjing Dispatch: The Ministry of Education has established remedial classes for refugee students from Shandong and Henan in Guazhou, Zhenjiang, Wuhu, and other places, limited to Shandong and Henan high school graduates with student status who registered in Beijing during the summer vacation of this year. These students have been sent by the Youth Relief Office of the Ministry of Education according to the registration list, without registration dates or other procedures.

### Indonesian Overseas Chinese Establish Sports Association; Indonesian Chinese Games to be Held Next Summer

[Our Newspaper Batavia Airmail] The Indonesian Overseas Chinese Sports Promotion Association was established in Batavia on National Day. Attendees included representatives from 12 ports in various islands of Indonesia, including Batavia, Surabaya, and Soedong. Lin Jichao, Wu Shugui, and 13 others were elected as directors and supervisors. The Batavia Chinese Sports Association proposed raising funds to build a public sports field for overseas Chinese in Batavia and scheduled the first All-Indonesia Overseas Chinese Games to be held in Batavia from June to October next year to promote overseas Chinese sports.

### Indonesian Island Basketball Competition

The first Indonesian Overseas Chinese Island Basketball Tournament was held in Batavia on September 9th. Participating units included representatives from the Lesser Sunda Islands, Celebes, Soedong, South Sumatra, Bangka, Belitung, Central Java, and West Java, with 115 male and female athletes. The scale was unprecedented. It is expected that the men's championship will be between West Java and Soedong, as Soedong has national team players such as Huang Tianxi, while West Java has previously represented Indonesia in the National Games. The West Java women's team has previously attended the National Games and is expected to win the championship.

### Small Games Mass Gymnastics Second District Practice

The date and participating schools for the second district practice of the mass gymnastics for the 12th Elementary School Joint Sports Games are as follows. Schools that did not participate in the previous practice can go to the following locations for practice.

October 28th (Thursday) 2:00 PM, schools gathering at Gaoqiao Middle School in Pudong for practice: 31st District Center, 30th District 1st Center, Xinlu Attached Elementary School, 30th District 2nd Center.

October 29th (Friday) 2:00 PM, schools gathering at the City Center Sports Field for practice: 22nd District Center, Tengfei, Dongjiang, Hongbei, National Defense Medical College Elementary School, Qimei.

October 30th (Saturday) 2:00 PM, schools gathering at the City West Middle School on Yuyuan Road for practice: (Municipal Schools) 8th District Center, 9th District 1st Center, 9th District 2nd Center, 12th District Center, Zhuan, Jinyuan, Yanping Road, Attached Elementary School for Female Teachers, Shangwen. (Private Schools) Zhaofeng, Yongding, Peiming Girls' Elementary School, Xixia, Jing'an, Patriotic 2nd Elementary School, Guoben, Ziqiang, Life, Nanyang, Model, Guangdong, Mengxian, Xinhua, Yanling.

October 31st (Sunday) 8:30 AM, schools gathering at the 18th District Center National School on Tangshan Road for practice: (Municipal Schools) 18th District Center, Hongzhen, Huoshan Road, Pingliang Road, Huimin Road, 19th District Center, 20th District Center, Yulin. (Private Schools) Chengzhong, Shengyang, Ronghai, Nianhua, Sigao, Shenpei, Qinghua, Hongguang, Zuozhi, Yinghua, Huairen.

### Guozhen Cup Basketball B Group Directly Subordinate Team Wins Championship

The Guozhen Cup basketball tournament, jointly organized by the organization group of the first section of the Municipal Police Bureau and the Voluntary Police Corps, has concluded the A group competition first. The champion was Lujiawan, the runner-up was Songshan, the third place was Laozha, and the fourth place was Changshu. The B group was divided into two sections, and the Directly Subordinate Zhenru team won the championship. The final was held at 3:00 PM yesterday in the fitness room of the Municipal Gymnasium. As a result, the Directly Subordinate team defeated Zhenru with a score of 30 to 24, winning the B group championship.

### Volleyball League Opens Tomorrow; Jia Group Yongsha Meets Xiangfeng

The third Volleyball League is scheduled to open at the Municipal Gymnasium at 6:00 PM tomorrow. Participants include eight teams in the Jia group, five teams in the women's group, and thirteen teams in the Yi group. The schedule for this week is as follows:

October 28th (Thursday)

Jixian - Tiemai (Yi 1) 6:00 PM

Meifu - Shijie (Yi 2) 6:45 PM

Yongsha - Xiangfeng (Jia) 7:30 PM

October 30th (Saturday)

Fuhua - Lan Team (Women) 6:00 PM

Watson - Qingfeng (Yi 1) 6:45 PM

Huayan - Tisheng (Jia) 7:30 PM

October 31st (Sunday)

Youlian - Huayan (Women) 5:45 PM

Huayan - Huaqing (Jia) 6:30 PM

Bai Team - Guba (Jia) 7:30 PM

Farmers' Cup Basketball Tournament

Youaihong - Yuyou (Yi You) 6:00 PM

Shan Team - Jingji (Jia Group) 6:45 PM

Taikang - Chunmao (Jia Group) 7:45 PM

### Campus News; Glimpses of Guanghua; Fellow-Provincial Associations Registering; Restaurants Quietly Raising Prices

Classes have been formally in session for a month. Fellow-provincial associations have sprouted up again, and dormitory rooms have become the headquarters for registering for various provincial student associations. The Academic Affairs Office, which was once crazed with re-election programs, is now quiet, and the Training Office's roll call clerks are now busy, often heavily surrounded after each class.

Under the pervasive trend of搶風, even the restaurants in front of the school have been caught up in the wave of "搶吃", so the amount of food has quietly decreased, and the price has quietly increased.

The friendly volleyball match with Wusong Business School the other day has decorated the lonely campus. Autumn is the season for sports, and the following series of games are being actively prepared. (H.G.)

## Page 6

Free Talk

### The World of Yellow Cattle

— A Whim

"Hey, want '200,000-head units'?"

"Huh?"

"Paired with penicillin, the real deal."

I couldn't help but pay attention. I saw a man, about thirty years old, wearing an old Western suit, holding a worn canvas briefcase in one hand, a half-smoked cigarette dangling from his mouth, hawking his so-called "200,000-head units" at the counters. The people behind the counters seemed uninterested, saying lazily, "Don't want it!"

I lowered my head and carefully examined various watches in the glass cabinet of a watch seller across from him. However, from the corner of my eye, I seemed to see someone slowly approaching the man selling "200,000-head units." They seemed like strangers, brushing past each other, but a low voice clearly drifted into my ears:

"What's the price?"

I raised my head and looked at the Western medicine on the neighboring counter again. Glancing back occasionally, the man selling "200,000-head units" had disappeared.

I was about to ask the person behind the counter if they had the Listerine toothpaste I was so eager to buy, when another person came along. It was a young man of about twenty-two or twenty-three, dressed entirely in surplus U.S. military gear—a dark green jacket, khaki pants, and mid-calf leather boots. He came up and immediately asked:

"Want '200,000-head units'? Fresh goods."

I glanced at him and saw a gold tooth shining brightly in his mouth. In my mind, I was revising an ancient poem: "In the morning, capture yellow cattle, in the evening, capture yellow cattle. Morning capture, evening capture, the yellow cattle remain the same!"

My poetic inspiration faded, and I walked forward again, suddenly seeing a large pile of glass (P.astic) dishes of all sizes, pink, light green, and milky white, which were quite lovely. I picked out a size that was a little larger, suitable for serving dishes, and asked the stall owner how much it cost.

"Forty-eight dollars!"

He probably saw that I was startled, so he explained with a smile, "Forty-eight dollars a dozen, not expensive at all!"

I said, "Isn't four dollars apiece still expensive? So, can I buy a few individually?"

"No, I only sell wholesale here. If you don't buy a dozen, then at least half a dozen."

In fact, there was no need to buy new dishes at my house. Since he said so, then let him find a buyer who knows the value of the goods. Suddenly, it occurred to me that yellow cattle and solo traders are "two sides of the same coin."

Feeling quite stuffy, I took out a cigarette, lit it, and took a puff. Looking ahead—that's right, there were indeed people wholesaling goods here. Two plainly dressed middle-aged men were opening their travel bags and stuffing bundles of glass combs into them.

Walking two more steps, great, wasn't I looking to buy Listerine toothpaste? Here at this counter, there were all kinds of excellent toothpaste—not just Listerine, but also Gu Ling Yu, and Colgate, all sizes available, many varieties. I went up to the counter and asked the owner to get me a large tube of Listerine toothpaste.

However, his reply was to turn up his nose. His head suddenly tilted upward, and his gaze seemed to focus on a cobweb on the ceiling. Then, in the coldest, most chilling tone, he said:

"We only do wholesale here!"

This left me speechless, and I turned around and left. Thinking about it, it's really strange: If I found what I wanted to buy in a department store on Nanjing Road or Avenue Joffre, they would definitely only let me buy one item, and they would even stamp my ID card, lest I buy too much. Here, they won't even let me buy too little!

There are indeed many differences between this place and places like Nanjing Road: For example, Miss Fodor brand high-end cosmetics, which have become a rare commodity in Nanjing Road stores, are abundant here. Sanli Pain tablets, which are difficult to buy in the market, are also readily available here. Moreover, there are no transaction restrictions here, citizen IDs are not needed at all, and—the "8/19" price controls seem to not exist.

Do you want to know what this place is? This is the largest "market" in Nanshi, conveniently located near old shops selling fermented rice wine balls and steamed buns, a long-established bookstore and teahouse, and even the famous fortune teller said to be effective for everything. If you believe in burning incense and making vows, then there are plenty of grand and small temples here, with incense smoke lingering all year round, and there are indeed many pious men and women. (Diary entry, October 23rd)

### On Stamping

— Old Dan

Not long ago, I talked about how "signing and stamping" is like building a house on top of a bed, which is inappropriate. Now I am reminded of stamping letters. Originally, the signature on a letter, the ordinary name and respectful greeting (or respectful address, or respectful bow, or respectful salutation, etc.), should be in the format of "Zhang San, respectful salutation" continuously. If a personal seal is added, the seal is stamped on the ink between the character "San" and the character "respectful," or at the bottom of the character "salutation." This indicates that the seal was added after the letter was written. However, in recent years, some people, especially those in government agencies and organizations, have a different approach. They mostly leave a space between the name and the greeting to stamp the seal. Some social titles also leave a space between the name and the respectful title to stamp the seal. I don't know who started this, creating such a nonsensical way of stamping letters. Now it is popular in agencies and in society, with misinformation leading to the acceptance of incorrect practices. It's truly absurd. Perhaps they think the seal should be given a position to express itself, so they came up with this method of leaving a space to stamp the seal. These words are naturally not a valid reason. We see that the official seals on all documents are always stamped below the "Republic of China's" "China" character, that is, on the ink of the characters such as "October 24, 37th year" (assumed date). They never leave a space of the length of a seal between "Republic of China" and "October 24, 37th year" to stamp the seal. Because the personal seal or official seal, read below the name or above the year, belongs to a kind of "official seal" meaning. Otherwise, they can simply pre-stamp the seal on the letterhead or official paper, which has too many drawbacks. The general inspection of the authenticity of documents, checking whether the seal or official seal is stamped on the handwriting, or whether the writing is on the ink, one before the other, is very important.

Speaking of stamping, I am reminded of a story: During the Northern Expedition of the Revolutionary Army, Jian Youwen took over as the Shandong Salt Transport Commissioner. He didn't have his own team, and most of the staff in the office were old hands. When the first proclamation was about to be posted, the head of the document group brought the proclamation to ask what seal should be stamped. To put it bluntly, this was testing whether the new official understood official business. At that time, Jian listened and really couldn't tell him what seal should be stamped. But Jian's quick wit was born, and he immediately put on a stern face and said, "What exactly do you do? Do you have to ask me about everything!" The head of the document group was rebuffed and knew that Jian was not easy to deal with. Because Jian's answer left him with nothing else to ask, he could only say "Yes! Yes!" and leave.

Once, at a calligraphy and painting exhibition, I saw a painting by someone named Chen, with a seal in the corner that said "Longmian Family Law." If the painter hadn't specified that he was named Chen, anyone with a little common sense would have said that the painter was named Li, because Longmian is named Li. This is what people who don't seek thorough understanding do, like leaving a space to stamp the seal under the name, which is a joke.

### Happiness

— As You Wish

The American "Reader's Digest" published this month has the following passage:

"Chinese people have this proverb: If you want an hour of happiness, you can drink alcohol; if you want three days of happiness, you can get married; if you want eight days of happiness, you can slaughter the pig you raised and eat a big meal. If you want a lifetime of happiness, then you should cultivate a garden and be your own gardener."

### "Money Makes the Devil Grind the Mill"

— Shuo Fu

As the saying goes, "Money makes the devil grind the mill." These days, it seems necessary to interpret it differently. Even if someone has enough money with them, if you can't get through other relationships besides money, especially personal relationships, you can't buy a piece of flannel, a white shirt, silk stockings, unopened canned food, more than one bar of soap, and even according to the housewives returning from the vegetable market, you can't buy pork, beef, or even a duck egg. Our country is known as an agricultural country, but the food panic and shortage problem doesn't seem to be as serious as in England, where potatoes are the main side dish.

The streets are also especially crowded. People who usually stay at home during the day seem to have all come to the streets. It seems that a Shanghai that is twice as big as before is needed to accommodate them. All kinds of shops are filled with people. Everything is a rush, everyone is rushing to buy shirts, soap, toothpaste, biscuits, candy... everyone is rushing to take streetcars, so they can get to their shopping destination early.

The leisurely life has at least temporarily passed, although I love some leisure. The more tragic phenomenon is that everyone doesn't seem enthusiastic about pursuing knowledge. I hear many people say that they don't have time to make a living these days, so where do they have free time to read! In fact, these complainers are not busy running around for food and clothing all day, but spend a lot of their free time playing cards at friends' homes, eating in restaurants, or killing time in dance halls. What is gratifying is that the books in the city's bookstores and street stalls are still very abundant, and the prices have not reached a crazy level, allowing us to browse at will and choose the best to buy.

If we dare to face reality, we have to admit that the general public's view of money has not only lost its value storage function, but also lost its meaning as a medium of exchange. The analysis of this problem may be very complicated. All the measures and methods are thinking for the good, and in the meantime, there is a dispute between selfish interests and national concepts, and the basic hopes of individuals to survive and preserve property are included.

I often think that if the monetary system planning can be changed, such as the United States during the War of Independence, Germany after the First World War, etc., they have all had malignant inflation, and they were able to survive it safely. Under strict management, using physical objects that can gain people's faith as the currency's reserve, and maintaining the currency's credit by exchanging physical objects, should alleviate the rush to buy things. Economists have created the comprehensive commodity standard theory, although it is more difficult to implement, but it can be used as a reference.

When money can fully exert its functions, I think "Money makes the devil grind the mill" will still be regarded as the truth by most people, because the traditional view of the omnipotence of money is too deeply rooted.

### The Net of Heaven is Vast

— Lin

On December 9, 1943, a body divided into several sections was suddenly discovered on the railway tracks near Fort Valley, Georgia, USA. Later, it was found that the deceased's name was John. Kemp. At the time, many people thought that Kemp had probably fallen asleep drunk and been crushed into pieces by the train.

However, the railway police quickly determined that it was murder. Soon, they caught the murderer—the deceased's wife.

It turned out that before murdering her husband, the woman had indeed spent a lot of effort. She had carefully studied how many sections a body would be divided into when hit by a train, and how these sections would fly away and scatter on both sides of the track. Then, she followed suit, killed her husband, and dismembered the body into sections, placing them near the track—perfectly. However, the net of heaven is vast, and the track she chose happened to be one that no train had passed on since August! Because she made this biggest mistake, the detectives quickly solved the case.

### Clever Numbers

— You Yuan

Although we have no research in the field of numerology, anyone can see the strangeness in the numbers below.

Name | Year of Birth | Age | Year of Initial Governance | Years in Power | Total
------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- | --------
Churchill | 1874 | 70 | 1940 | 4 | 3888
Hitler | 1889 | 55 | 1933 | 11 | 3888
Roosevelt | 1882 | 62 | 1933 | 11 | 3888
Mussolini | 1883 | 61 | 1922 | 22 | 3888
Stalin | 1879 | 65 | 1924 | 20 | 3888
Tojo | 1884 | 60 | 1941 | 3 | 3888

(Note) The age and years in power are based on the year the war ended.

The war ended at half of 3888—944, i.e., 1944. Half of 1944 is 972—9·7·2—the date and time the war ended was September 7th at 2 o'clock.

### Recent Works by Xia An

— Ye Gongchuo

Inscription on the Album of Poems on Ganjiuyuan

The old masters' poems are still fresh, and I, too, am a man of the past, sadly; who will continue the elegance of the South today? If they can be passed down, they will be celebrated on the streets. (The old masters who wrote poems in the past are now rarely alive.)

Suddenly aware of the dust of the world for fifty years, dream traces and poetic traces have long been like smoke; returning, I only remember the words of the past, and the pines and chrysanthemums are also virtuous in my eyes. (When I was eighteen or nineteen, I often visited Ganjiuyuan, and now it has been fifty years.)

Who knows the joy of fish swimming in the Hao River! The efforts of the gentlemen are still worthy of poetry; competing for sentences, playing checkers, money following the old generation, I remember all the flavors of my childhood. (My ancestral home was in Qingshui Hao, and later my uncle and grandfather Tianchuan, and my biological father and uncle Shuda also lived here. When I was young, I was not abandoned by the elders, so many gentlemen in the album were favored by my hands. Master Jie An invited me to teach in Wuchang, and I specialized in the topic door saying: "Yongjia School, Jingchu Years." The master greatly appreciated it and revealed it to the public, and thus gained a thin reputation at the time. When I was in my twenties, Master Xinbo liked to visit me and my brothers often, and we often played checkers in the house until dawn. The wins and losses were only one or two yuan, which was very ridiculous. However, he often taught me the way of learning in the meantime, and encouraged me a lot. When I was eighteen, I asked Master Yishifu to correct my jade moss poem. The master always posted it to the poets, saying that it was like Bishan. I began to deliberately write poetry from then on, and other things are not worth mentioning. Now that I am old and have not accomplished anything, I have failed the expectations of the elders.)

The road in front of Doumu Palace is already deep, and the past events of the chrysanthemum field are unbearable to mention; sadly, only Wei Lang is left, and the Illusion Dwelling Garden is gradually setting in the west. (The Illusion Dwelling Garden is my cemetery in the Cuiwei Mountains of Beiping, where my second wife Jingchi is buried.)

