Title: The "Loss Outweighs Gain" Theory Can Rest in Peace

Author:

Date: 1959-09-01
Page: 1

The "Loss Outweighs Gain" Theory Can Rest in Peace

Today is September 1st. On this day last year, the newspapers published the great call of the Party Central Committee Political Bureau's Beidaihe Conference to double steel production and produce 10.7 million tons of steel within the year. From that day on, the whole country, from top to bottom, rose up and launched a vigorous mass movement to make steel. A year has passed, and now large and small steel plants and iron smelting bases are all over the provinces of the country, molten iron is rolling, steel flowers are splashing, the mass movement of the national economy's continued leap forward is in full swing, and our country's construction undertaking is continuing to leap forward at a high speed that capitalist countries have never had and will never be able to have.

The mass movement of making steel is a great practice of the whole Party and the people of the whole country in implementing the Party's general line for socialist construction, and a great struggle of the working people of our country to change the "poor and blank" face of our country as soon as possible. This struggle has achieved a brilliant victory unprecedented in the history of our country. As is well known, in 1958, the steel production of our country, including native steel, reached 11.08 million tons, an increase of 107% compared with 1957; if native steel is not included, the production of foreign steel also reached 8 million tons, an increase of 49.5% compared with 1957. This is an unprecedented high speed. History is the best witness. This speed is worlds apart from the speed of steel production in old China. In old China, from the time Zhang Zhidong opened the first steel plant in Daye, Hubei in 1890 to 1949, a full 59 years, the cumulative steel production was only 7.6 million tons, an average annual steel production of 128,000 tons. And our people, after fighting for a year last year, produced more steel than old China in 59 years. This speed also greatly exceeds the average annual growth rate of 31.7% of steel production in our country during the first five-year plan. During these five years, China's steel production increased by 4 million tons, while in the past year alone, foreign steel increased by 2.65 million tons, and even native steel increased by 5.73 million tons. Last year, the growth rate of China's steel production was also a high speed that any capitalist country could not match. Taking the increase in absolute output, it took the United States five years to increase steel production from more than 5 million tons to about 7.27 million tons, and eight years to increase from more than 5 million tons to more than 10.3 million tons. It took the United Kingdom eleven years from an annual output of 5.11 million tons in 1903 to 7.97 million tons in 1914, and twenty-two years from an annual output of 7.97 million tons of steel in 1914 to an annual output of 11.97 million tons of steel in 1936. It is also far behind us.

Due to the vigorous development of the mass movement of making steel since September last year, the face of China's steel industry has been greatly changed. Before last year, only eight or nine provinces and cities, such as Liaoning, Heilongjiang, Hebei, Shanxi, Hubei, Sichuan, Beijing, and Shanghai, had some steel industry. After the mass steelmaking by the whole people last year, almost all provinces and autonomous regions in the country have established the foundation of the steel industry, large or small; especially after the rectification, consolidation, and improvement in the past winter and this spring, in addition to the original 18 key steel enterprises, China has gradually formed the foundation of more than 20 medium-sized steel plants and more than 300 iron smelting bases. There, small blast furnaces with a volume of more than 40,000 cubic meters, which can now produce 10 million tons of pig iron annually, and small converters that can produce 4 million tons of steel annually and 7 million tons of steel annually after reaching the design capacity have been built, which has made the continued leap forward of the steel industry this year extremely favorable. Small converters have become a powerful new force in steelmaking production this year, and small blast furnaces are responsible for half of the country's pig iron production tasks. Moreover, using this foundation, after two years or a little longer of effort this year and next, we may build more than ten iron and steel joint enterprises with an annual output of about 300,000 tons and more than ten steel plants with an annual output of about 150,000 tons. In this way, small and medium-sized iron and steel enterprises will form a steel industry network all over the provinces and autonomous regions of the country together with the large iron and steel joint enterprises that have been built and are under construction. This is the most important foundation for the high-speed development of China's national economy. The people of our country, with infinite joy, cheer the great achievements of steelmaking. The people of our country deeply know that with a strong steel industry, our industrialization has hope, our agricultural mechanization also has hope, and our national defense modernization also has hope. In short, our country's prosperity and strength, and the happiness and well-being of our people, will be guaranteed.

But all these huge changes that have taken place in a short period of one year cannot but cause great panic for the reactionary forces at home and abroad. They constantly cursed our mass movement of making steel, slandered the great initiative of tens of millions of Chinese people going to the mountains to make steel as a failure, and ridiculed our native blast furnaces and small blast furnaces as a wasteful and ineffective labor. Do these reactionary gentlemen really care about the people of our country? Of course not. They slander and ridicule our great steelmaking, just because they hate us. They hate our general line of socialist construction, hate our vigorous mass movement, and hate our policy of "walking on two legs." Because the general line of socialist construction, the mass movement of making steel, and the policy of "walking on two legs" will inevitably lead to the high-speed development of China's industry, and will inevitably make China stronger. However, no matter how these reactionaries curse and ridicule, they cannot damage the slightest bit of the 11.08 million tons of steel we have already won, and they cannot stop the continued leap forward of the people of our country.

In addition to the curses of reactionary forces at home and abroad, within our ranks, some right-leaning opportunists are also extremely dissatisfied with the mass movement of making steel since last year. In their view, this is nothing more than a "petty-bourgeois fanatic movement," which is "more loss than gain" or even "more loss than gain." How to understand the mass movement of making steel and how to evaluate the gains and losses of this mass movement is a major issue related to whether or not to have the general line of socialist construction and whether or not to have the policy of "walking on two legs."

Everyone who has participated in the mass movement of making steel, and everyone who has contributed and sweated in this movement, deeply realizes that the mass movement of making steel is a manifestation of the high enthusiasm and creativity of the people of our country in order to accelerate socialist construction, and is a magnificent revolutionary movement led by the proletariat with tens of millions of people participating. Our country is a "poor and blank" country, and our people have lived like cattle and horses for generations. Getting rid of this "poor and blank" situation is the long-term ardent desire of the people of our country. It is precisely this ardent desire that mobilized the broad masses of the people and launched an unprecedented upsurge of steelmaking throughout the country. This upsurge was formed under the upsurge of water conservancy construction, the upsurge of vigorously developing local industries, and the upsurge of the people's commune. At that time, people generally felt that: factories need steel; the ball bearing of transportation vehicles needs steel; the promotion of new agricultural tools needs steel; and the rise of the people's commune created favorable conditions for steelmaking. The Party Central Committee's call for doubling steel production reflected the wishes of the people of the whole country and the needs of the development of the situation, mobilized the strength of the broad masses of the people, and started a great voyage of high-speed development of the steel industry. Any true Communist, revolutionary cadre, and anyone who truly cares about the prosperity of the motherland cannot but be moved by the enthusiasm of tens of millions of people "going to the mountains to collect treasures." It is absurd for reactionary forces at home and abroad to slander that tens of millions of Chinese people going to the mountains are "forced labor," and it also shows that right-leaning opportunists slander this great revolutionary movement as a "petty-bourgeois fanatic movement," that they are divorced from the masses, divorced from reality, standing far outside the people, and do not understand the ardent desire and enthusiasm of the people to quickly get rid of the "poor and blank" situation.

One of the biggest slanders of the right-leaning opportunists against the mass movement of steelmaking is that steelmaking is "more loss than gain." Now let's take a good look at this balance of gains and losses.

"Too much money has been spent!" This is a "argument" of the right-leaning opportunists' "loss outweighs gain theory." Developing small blast furnaces costs money, and the state must provide a subsidy for the production of small blast furnaces for a period of time. But how should this account be calculated? Should it be calculated from the current expenditure? Or should it be calculated from the long-term income? We believe that we should calculate the overall account from the long-term effects of the development of small blast furnaces on the country's economic construction. In less than a year, we have built more than 40,000 cubic meters of small blast furnaces. These small blast furnaces will produce about 10 million tons of pig iron this year, and a total of about 55 million tons of pig iron during the second five-year plan. By 1963, the production capacity of small blast furnaces will reach 15 million tons of pig iron per year. In one year, such a huge production capacity has been increased, and what is uneconomical to give a certain investment? If it were not for "walking on two legs," and developing small blast furnaces while building large blast furnaces, but only building modern large blast furnaces, then, if we want to increase 15 million tons of iron smelting capacity, we will have to build more than 20 large blast furnaces with a volume of more than 1,000 cubic meters. Is this possible? Absolutely impossible. The money to build more than 20 large blast furnaces is about the same as the money to subsidize small blast furnaces. However, it is impossible to build so many large blast furnaces at the same time, whether from our technical strength, our equipment manufacturing capacity, or from importing equipment from abroad. To take a step back, even if it is assumed that so many large blast furnaces can be built, it is absolutely impossible to produce 55 million tons of pig iron in five years due to the long construction time of large blast furnaces. Moreover, small blast furnaces can use scattered and small reserves of mineral deposits, while large blast furnaces cannot start construction without a mineral base with reserves of hundreds of millions of tons; small blast furnaces can use a part of the folk transportation tools, and to build more than a dozen large blast furnaces, just the internal transportation of the factory needs to build thousands of kilometers of railways in order to concentrate the supply of raw materials such as iron ore and coke, which is also impossible to do in a short time. All of this shows that the policy of "walking on two legs" is completely correct. The state spends funds equal to or even less than the construction of large blast furnaces, but can get 55 million tons of pig iron in a much earlier time than the construction of large blast furnaces, winning high speed and creating important conditions for the comprehensive leap forward of the national economy. Right-leaning opportunists are short-sighted, they simply can't calculate, but pretend to know economic accounting very well.

"The quality is too bad!" This is another "argument" of the right-leaning opportunists' "loss outweighs gain theory." It is a fact that the quality of native iron and native steel produced in 1958 is worse than that of "foreign iron" and "foreign steel" produced with modern equipment. However, native iron was originally mainly for rural use. Facts have proved that last year's native iron and native steel played a great role in this year's agricultural production. Many simple machines and agricultural tools used in rural areas were made of native iron and native steel. Without this batch of native iron and native steel, it would not be possible to meet the needs of agricultural production development by relying on foreign steel alone. Moreover, the native iron produced in the great steelmaking movement last year also played a major role in completing the production of 10.7 million tons of steel. All major steel plants in the country used native iron to make steel. In the fourth quarter of last year, 700,400 tons of native iron were transferred to key enterprises such as Anshan Iron and Steel, and a total of 1.1 million tons in the first half of this year. Native iron and "foreign iron" go hand in hand, and good steel is made. Thanks to our timely measures, since this year, the iron produced by small blast furnaces and the steel produced by small converters, which have replaced small native furnaces, have been rapidly improved in quality. The qualified rate of pig iron quality has reached more than 75%. Some large steel plants use small blast furnace pig iron to make very good steel, and many machinery factories also use small blast furnace pig iron as foundry pig iron. The qualified rate of converter steel quality has also reached more than 90%. Right-leaning opportunists close their eyes and do not look at these facts. Their clamoring about poor quality is not really to improve quality, but to fundamentally oppose the mass movement of steelmaking and oppose the policy of developing industry by walking on two legs.

"'Small Native Groups' made a mistake!" This is another "argument" of the right-leaning opportunists' "loss outweighs gain theory." They said: "Since there are 'Small Foreign Groups' today, why did we have 'Small Native Groups' in the first place." Yes, the "Small Native Groups" of last winter have been replaced by "Small Foreign Groups" since this spring. However, this cannot prove that the "Small Native Groups" made a mistake, on the contrary, it just proves that the "Small Native Groups" were right. From "Small Native Groups" to "Small Foreign Groups" is an inevitable process from popularization to improvement and from low-level to high-level. Without the "Small Native Groups" in the first place, there would be no "Small Foreign Groups" today. It was precisely because of the large-scale development of "Small Native Groups" in the past that a general survey of coal and iron resources was conducted throughout the country, which provided a large amount of geological data for the development of "Small Foreign Groups" today; it was precisely because of the large-scale development of "Small Native Groups" in the past that millions of people went to a steel school, which provided technical strength for the development of "Small Foreign Groups" today; it was also precisely because of the large-scale development of "Small Native Groups" in the past that steel production achieved a huge increase, which provided the necessary mechanical equipment for the development of "Small Foreign Groups" today. Think about it: If we had not vigorously developed "Small Native Groups" in the first place, how could we have developed "Small Foreign Groups" when geological resources were unclear, technical strength was insufficient, and mechanical equipment was insufficient? This is something within the scope of common sense, but right-leaning opportunists just ignore this common sense.

"Steelmaking squeezed out everything." Another "argument" of the right-leaning opportunists' "loss outweighs gain theory." Is this really the case? The opposite is true. In 1958, thanks to taking steel as the key link, there was a great leap forward in industry. The coal industry, the power industry, the machinery industry, and the textile industry all realized a comprehensive leap forward under the impetus of doubling steel production. During the first five-year plan, China's raw coal production increased by an average of 14.5% per year, but the output in 1958 increased by 108% compared with 1957. During the first five-year plan, China's power generation increased by an average of 21.6% per year, but in 1958 it increased by 42% compared with 1957. During the first five-year plan, China's output of metal cutting machine tools increased by an average of 22% per year, but the output in 1958 increased by 79% compared with 1957. During the first five-year plan, China's output of cotton yarn increased by an average of 5.2% per year, but the output in 1958 increased by 31% compared with 1957. Look! Did the mass movement of making steel squeeze out everything or drive everything? If it squeezed out everything, how can we explain the rapid growth of the output of various industrial products such as coal, electricity, metal cutting machine tools, and cotton yarn? Of course, within a local scope, and in a short period of time, due to the steelmaking affected the coal supply and equipment supply of certain departments, and occupied more agricultural labor, this situation is there. However, this is only a shortcoming in a local scope, a temporary shortcoming, only a shortcoming of one finger out of ten fingers, and these shortcomings have been overcome or are being overcome. The actual situation is that if so much steel had not been produced in the great leap forward in 1958, the difficulties that our entire industrial construction, including capital construction, would encounter this year would be many times greater than the local difficulties mentioned above. The inevitable result of the mass movement of making steel is to drive everything. Steel is the foundation of industry. Only with the high-speed development of the steel industry can there be a high-speed development of the entire industry, and only then can there be a high-speed development of the entire national economy. This argument of right-leaning opportunists is actually against the Party's policy of taking steel as the key link and comprehensively leaping forward, and against the policy of developing industry at high speed.

The brilliant achievements of the mass movement of making steel shattered all the rumors and slanders of reactionary forces at home and abroad, and also refuted the fallacies of right-leaning opportunists. The mass steelmaking movement by the whole people is not "more loss than gain" at all, but the gains are extremely great. Our steel industry is continuing to leap forward under the guidance of the policy of "walking on two legs." On the occasion of commemorating the first anniversary of the mass movement of making steel, the millions of heroic sons and daughters on the steel front are responding to the great call of the Eighth Plenary Session with great enthusiasm, continuing to go all out, aim high, and work harder, producing more, better quality, and lower-cost steel, and striving to over fulfill the task of 12 million tons of steel, and bravely advancing to realize the steel production target of the second five-year plan this year. Let us continue to hold high the glorious banner of the general line of socialist construction, resolutely implement the policy of "walking on two legs," and use greater production achievements to celebrate the great tenth anniversary of the National Day!



<hr /> 

Original: 


### “得不偿失”论可以休矣

1959-09-01
第1版()
专栏：社论

    “得不偿失”论可以休矣
    今天是9月1日。去年今日，报纸上公布了党中央政治局北戴河会议关于把钢的产量翻一番，在年内生产一千零七十万吨钢的伟大号召。从那一天开始，举国上下，全民奋起，掀起了一个轰轰烈烈的大炼钢铁的群众运动。一年的时间过去了，如今大大小小的钢铁厂和炼铁基点遍布全国各省，铁水滚滚，钢花四溅，国民经济继续跃进的群众运动方兴未艾，我们国家的建设事业正以资本主义国家从来不曾有过、也永远不可能有的高速度继续跃进。
    大炼钢铁的群众运动，是全党和全国人民贯彻执行党的社会主义建设总路线的一次伟大的实践，是我国劳动人民为了尽速改变我国“一穷二白”的面貌而进行的一次伟大的斗争。这个斗争已经取得了我国历史上前所未有的辉煌的胜利。如所周知，1958年，我国包括土钢在内的钢产量达到一千一百零八万吨，比1957年增长107％；如果不包括土钢在内，洋钢的产量也达到八百万吨，比1957年增长了49.5％。这是空前的高速度。历史是最好的见证人，这个速度同旧中国钢铁生产的速度相比，真有天壤之别。在旧中国从1890年张之洞在湖北大冶开办第一个钢铁厂起，到1949年整整五十九年间累计的钢产量只有七百六十万吨，平均每年钢产量十二万八千吨。而我国人民去年奋战一年，就生产了比旧中国五十九年还要多得多的钢。这个速度还大大超过第一个五年计划期间我国钢产量平均每年增长31.7％的速度。在这五年间，我国的钢产增长了四百万吨，而去年一年间，仅洋钢就增长了二百六十五万吨，连土钢就增长了五百七十三万吨。去年我国钢产的增长速度，也是任何资本主义国家望尘莫及的高速度。拿绝对产量的增长来说，美国的钢产量从五百多万吨增长到七百二十七万吨左右，用了五年的时间，从五百多万吨增长到一千零三十多万吨，用了八年的时间。英国从1903年的年产五百一十一万吨到1914年的七百九十七万吨共用了十一年时间，从1914年的年产七百九十七万吨钢到1936年的年产钢一千一百九十七万吨，用了二十二年的时间。也远远落在我们的后面。
    由于从去年9月份开始的大炼钢铁的群众运动的蓬勃开展，我国钢铁工业的面貌已经得到很大的改变。在去年以前，我国只有辽宁、黑龙江、河北、山西、湖北、四川和北京、上海等八、九个省市有一些钢铁工业。经过去年全民大炼钢铁，几乎全国所有的省和自治区，都建立了或大或小的钢铁工业的基础；特别是经过去冬今春的整顿、巩固和提高后，现在除了原有十八个重点钢铁企业以外，我国又逐步形成了二十多个中型钢铁厂的基础和三百多个炼铁的基点。在那里，已建设起容积达四万多立方米、现在能够年产生铁一千万吨的小高炉，和可以年产四百万吨钢、在达到设计能力后可以年产七百万吨钢的小转炉，这就使今年钢铁工业的继续跃进有了极其有利的条件。小转炉已经成为今年炼钢生产中一支强大的生力军，小高炉更担负着全国半数的生铁生产任务。并且，利用这个基础，经过今明两年或者稍长一点时间的努力，我们就可能建成年产三十万吨左右规模的钢铁联合企业十多个和年产十五万吨左右规模的钢铁厂十多个。这样，中小型的钢铁企业，将同已经建成和正在建设的大型钢铁联合企业组成一个遍布全国各个省和自治区的钢铁工业网。这是我国国民经济高速度发展的最重要的基础。我国人民怀着无限的喜悦，欢呼大炼钢铁的伟大成就。我国人民深深知道，有了强大的钢铁工业，我国的工业化就有指望了，我国的农业机械化也有指望了，我国的国防现代化也就有指望了，总之，我国的富强和繁荣，我国人民的幸福和安乐，也就有保障了。
    但是这一切发生在短短的一年间的巨大的变化，对于国内外的反动派来说，不能不引起极大的恐慌。他们不断地咒骂我们的大炼钢铁的群众运动，污蔑我国几千万人上山大炼钢铁的伟大创举失败了，讥笑我们的土高炉和小高炉是一种浪费的无效的劳动。难道这些反动派的先生们真的关心我国人民么？当然不是。他们污蔑和讥笑我们的大炼钢铁，只是因为他们仇视我们。他们仇视我们的社会主义建设总路线，仇视我们的轰轰烈烈的群众运动，仇视我们的“两条腿走路”的方针。因为社会主义建设总路线，大办钢铁的群众运动和“两条腿走路”的方针，必然导致中国工业的高速度发展，必然使中国变得更加强大起来。但是，任凭这些反动派怎样咒骂、讥笑，都不能有损于我们已经夺得的一千一百零八万吨钢的毫毛，更不能阻挡我国人民的继续跃进。
    除了国内外的反动派的咒骂以外，在我们的队伍内部，有一些右倾机会主义分子，对于去年以来大炼钢铁的群众运动也是极端不满的。在他们看来，这不过是“小资产阶级狂热性运动”，是“得不偿失”、甚至“有失无得”的。究竟怎样来认识大炼钢铁的群众运动，怎样来估价这个群众运动的得失，是关系到要不要社会主义建设总路线、要不要“两条腿走路”的方针的大是大非的问题。
    每一个参加了大炼钢铁群众运动的人，每一个在这个运动中出过力、流过汗的人，都深深地体会到：大炼钢铁的群众运动是我国人民为了加速社会主义建设而发挥高度积极性、创造性的表现，是无产阶级领导下的有几千万人参加的一次宏伟的革命运动。我们的国家是一个“一穷二白”的国家，我们的人民祖祖辈辈过着牛马一般的生活。摆脱这种“一穷二白”的状况，是我国人民长期以来的热烈愿望。正是这种热烈的愿望，把广大人民群众动员起来，在全国范围内展开了一次史无前例大炼钢铁的高潮。这个高潮是在各地兴修水利的高潮、大办地方工业的高潮和人民公社化的高潮下形成的。那时候，人们普遍感到：办工厂，要钢铁；运输车辆滚珠轴承化，要钢铁；推广新式农具，要钢铁；而人民公社的兴起则为大炼钢铁创造了有利条件。党中央关于钢产加番的号召，反映了全国人民的愿望和形势发展的需要，把广大人民的力量动员起来，开始了一个高速度发展钢铁工业的伟大航程。任何一个真正的共产党人、革命干部和真正关心祖国富强的人，都不能不为几千万人“上山取宝”的热情所感动。国内外反动派污蔑我国几千万人上山是“强迫劳动”固然是无稽之谈，右倾机会主义分子污蔑这个伟大的革命运动是
  “小资产阶级狂热性运动”，也正表明他们脱离群众、脱离实际，远远站在人民群众的外面，根本不理解人民群众要求迅速摆脱“一穷二白”状况的热烈的愿望和奋发的热情。
    右倾机会主义分子对大炼钢铁的群众运动的一个最大污蔑，就是说大炼钢铁“得不偿失”。现在我们就来好好算一下这笔得失的账。
    “钱花得太多了！”这是右倾机会主义分子“得不偿失论”的一个“论据”。发展小高炉是要花钱的，国家在一个时期内必须对小高炉生产给予一笔补贴。但是，这笔账应当怎样算呢？应该从眼前的支出来算？
  还是从长远的所得来算？我们认为应当从发展小高炉对国家的经济建设所发生的长远的效果来算总账。我们在不到一年的期间内，已经建设起四万多立方米的小高炉，这些小高炉今年内将生产一千万吨左右的生铁，在第二个五年计划期间总共将生产五千五百万吨左右的生铁。
    到1963年，小高炉的生产能力将达到年产生铁一千五百万吨。在一年的时间内就增加了这么巨大的生产能力，给以一定的投资，有什么划不来的呢？如果不是“两条腿走路”，不是在建设大高炉的同时发展小高炉，而是仅仅建设现代化的大高炉，那么，我们要增加一千五百万吨的炼铁能力，就要再建设二十多座容积达一千多立方米的大高炉，这可能吗？绝不可能。建设二十几座大高炉的钱和补贴小高炉的钱是差不多的，但是，无论从我们的技术力量、我们的设备制造能力、或者从国外进口设备，都不可能同时建设这样多的大高炉。退一步说，即便假定能够建设起这样多的大高炉，也由于大高炉建设的时间长，在五年内也绝不可能生产出五千五百万吨生铁。而且，小高炉可以利用分散的、储量较少的矿藏，而大高炉没有储量达几亿吨的矿产基地是不能动工的；小高炉可以利用一部分民间运输工具，而要建设十多座大高炉，为了集中供应铁矿、焦炭等原料，仅厂内运输就需要建设几千公里铁路，这也是短时间内办不到的。凡此种种，都说明“两条腿走路”的方针是完全正确的，国家花费了较建设大高炉相等的甚至更少的资金，却能在比建设大高炉早得多的时间内拿到五千五百万吨生铁，赢得了高速度，为国民经济的全面跃进创造了重要条件。右倾机会主义分子鼠目寸光，他们根本不会算账，却装成很懂得经济核算。
    “质量太坏了！”这是右倾机会主义分子“得不偿失论”的又一个“论据”。1958年生产的土铁、土钢比用现代设备生产的“洋铁”“洋钢”，质量上差一些，这是事实。但是，土铁本来主要就是供农村使用的。事实证明，去年的土铁、土钢在今年的农业生产中发挥了很大作用，许多农村用的简易机械和农具都是用土铁、土钢制造的，没有这批土铁、土钢，仅靠洋钢，就不能供应农业生产发展的需要。而且，去年大炼钢铁运动中生产的土铁，在完成1070万吨钢的生产中也起了重大的作用。全国各大钢厂都使用了土铁炼钢。去年第四季度调给鞍钢等重点企业的土铁计七十万零四百吨，今年上半年共一百一十万吨。土铁与“洋铁”并驾齐驱，炼出了好钢。由于我们及时地采取了措施，今年以来，代替小土炉发展起来的小高炉生产的铁和小转炉生产的钢，在质量方面都有了迅速的提高。生铁的质量合格率已达到75％以上，一些大型钢厂都用小高炉生铁炼出很好的钢，许多机械厂也用小高炉生铁作铸造生铁。转炉钢的质量合格率也达到了90％以上。右倾机会主义分子闭着眼睛不看这些事实。他们大肆叫嚣质量不好，其目的并不是真正想提高质量，而是根本反对大炼钢铁，反对用两条腿走路办工业的方针。
    “‘小土群’搞错了！”这是右倾机会主义分子“得不偿失论”的另一个“论据”。他们说：“既然今日‘小洋群’，何必当初‘小土群’。”是的，去冬的“小土群”今春以来已相继被“小洋群”代替了。但是，这丝毫也不能说明“小土群”搞错了，相反地，却恰恰证明“小土群”搞对了。由“小土群”到“小洋群”，这是一个由普及到提高、由低级到高级的必然过程。没有当初的“小土群”，也就没有今天的“小洋群”。正是由于当初大搞“小土群”，在全国范围内进行了一次煤铁资源的普查，才为今天“小洋群”的发展提供了大量的地质资料；正是由于当初大搞“小土群”，使千百万人上了一次钢铁学校，才为今天“小洋群”的发展提供了技术力量；也正是由于当初大搞“小土群”，使钢铁产量得到巨大的增长，才为今天“小洋群”的发展提供了必要的机械设备。试想：如果不是当初大搞“小土群”，我们怎么可能在地质资源不明、技术力量不足、机械设备不够的情况下发展“小洋群”？这是一种常识范围以内的事，可是右倾机会主义分子，恰恰就无视这种常识。
    “大炼钢铁挤掉了一切。”右倾机会主义分子“得不偿失论”的再一个“论据”。事实果真是这样的吗？事实恰恰相反，1958年，由于以钢为纲，出现了工业大跃进，煤炭工业、电力工业、机械工业、纺织工业，各行各业都在钢铁加番的带动下实现了全面跃进。第一个五年计划期间，我国原煤产量平均每年增长14.5％，1958年的产量却比1957年增长了108％。第一个五年计划期间，我国发电量平均每年增长21.6％，1958年却比1957年增长了42％。第一个五年计划期间，我国金属切削机床的产量平均每年增长22％，1958年的产量却比1957年增长了79％。第一个五年计划期间，我国棉纱的产量平均每年增长5.2％，1958年的产量却比1957年增长了31％。请看！究竟大炼钢铁的群众运动是挤掉了一切、还是带动了一切？如果是挤掉了一切，我们又怎样解释煤炭、电力、金属切削机床、棉纱等各种工业产品产量的迅速增长呢？当然，在局部的范围内，在一个短时期里，由于大炼钢铁影响了某些部门的煤炭供应和设备供应，多占用了一些农业劳动力，这种情况是有的。但是，这只是局部范围的缺点，是暂时性的缺点，只是十个指头中一个指头的缺点，而且这些缺点已经克服或者正在克服。实际的情况是，如果不是在1958年大跃进中生产出这么多的钢铁，我们今年的整个工业建设包括基本建设在内将遇到的困难，比起上面所说的这些局部的困难，将不知要大多少倍。大炼钢铁的群众运动的必然结果是带动一切。钢铁是工业的基础，有了钢铁工业的高速度发展，才能有整个工业的高速度发展，也才能有整个国民经济的高速度发展。右倾机会主义分子的这个论调实际上是反对党的以钢为纲、全面跃进的方针，是反对高速度发展工业的方针。
    大炼钢铁的群众运动的辉煌成就，粉碎了国内外反动派的一切造谣污蔑，也驳倒了右倾机会主义分子的谬论。全民大炼钢铁运动完全不是“得不偿失”，而是所得极大。我们的钢铁工业在“两条腿走路”的方针指导下，正在继续向前跃进。在纪念大炼钢铁群众运动一周年的时候，钢铁战线上几百万英雄儿女，正以极大的热情响应八中全会的伟大号召，继续鼓足干劲，力争上游，再接再厉，生产数量更多、质量更好、成本更低的钢铁，力争超额完成一千二百万吨钢的任务，为在今年实现第二个五年计划的钢铁生产指标而奋勇前进。让我们继续高举社会主义建设总路线的光荣旗帜，坚决贯彻执行“两条腿走路”的方针，用更大的生产成就向伟大的国庆十周年献礼！
