Title: Eliminating Great Han Chauvinism and Anti-Patriotic Geographical Viewpoints
Author: Lin Zhiqiao
Date: 1951-06-25
Page: 6

　　Eliminating Great Han Chauvinism and Anti-Patriotic Geographical Viewpoints
　　Review: "A True Record of Borderland Geographical Investigations" by Yan Deyi, Commercial Press, first edition December 1950
　　"The Geography of New China" by Sheng Xugong, Ibid, first edition August 1950
　　"Geography Teaching Manual" compiled by Zhang Limin, Ibid, first edition February 1951

Currently, many geographical books contain serious ideological and political errors. Recently, I read the above three books published by the Commercial Press, and I am now putting forward several major serious ideological errors in these three books for study.

"A True Record of Borderland Geographical Investigations" is a collection of reports and papers by the author, Yan Deyi, on his inspections of the "borderlands" from 1934 to 1941. The so-called "borderlands" refer to the border areas of Kang, Qing, and Yunnan provinces. Referring to Kang and Qing as borderlands is a serious mistake. Although the author said in the "Preface" that this book was "obtained through weathering storms, cutting through thorns, hard work, and shedding sweat and blood," we should also acknowledge that this book reveals some original materials and has some reference value; however, the book is permeated with the reactionary viewpoint of Great Han Chauvinism, and its basic political arguments are erroneous and absurd. What is even stranger is that the author also admitted in the "Preface" that there were "vulgar old geographical viewpoints and incorrect tone," but used the excuse that "the original manuscript has already been typeset" and published it without any modification. No matter how insufficient the author's acknowledgment of his mistakes is, publishing it unchanged with a technical excuse after knowing that there were errors is simply irresponsible. This kind of practice is now very common. We have seen many reprinted old editions of books that are irresponsible in this way. Therefore, I am pointing it out specifically to let everyone know that this kind of publishing work, which disregards the harmful effects of publications on the country and the people, lacks a people's stance.

Sheng Xugong's "The Geography of New China" is another typical example. The author attempted to use dialectical materialism and historical materialism to "criticize" the old, but serious errors occurred, which we must point out.

Zhang Limin's "Geography Teaching Manual" represents an even worse practice. In some places, the editor quoted some progressive words, but he compiled the materials entirely from the erroneous perspective of the bourgeoisie. He relied on a very small number of outdated books, plagiarized and pieced them together, resulting in numerous errors. This book has almost no ideological system to speak of and is a substandard product of a standard unlearned editing craftsman.

The following mainly criticizes the contents of these three books concisely from the two aspects of national issues and geographical issues.

★ ★ ★

In order to correctly implement the domestic ethnic policies of New China, we should oppose the traditional ideology of Great Han Chauvinism. "A True Record of Borderland Geographical Investigations" is a blatant work of Great Han Chauvinism.

The first issue is the issue of the names for various ethnic minorities. Although the author of this book pointed out some correct names of ethnic minorities, such as saying that the "Baiyi" on the Yunnan border should be "Shan," the "Yeren" should be "Jingpo," and the Kangqing Fanmin should be Tibetan, the vast majority of places still used the reactionary names of Great Han Chauvinism, or called them "Yi," or "Man," or "Fan," or "Ye," or added the "犭" radical, such as Baiyi, Luoyi, Yiren, Manyi, Puman, Fanzi, Fanmin, Yeren, ??, Ye??, etc. Giving various names to ethnic minorities because of different customs originally only indicated the ignorance and ethnic discrimination of the caller, but this book still used those ugly names, such as Shui Baiyi, Han Baiyi, Shantou, Jiantou Akha, Pingtou Akha, Lupi'gu Akha, etc.

Not only that, but this book also used various slanderous phrases to evaluate the fraternal ethnic groups, such as "lazy and weak since childhood," "pathetically lazy," "lazy and backward races," "ignorant and unknowing," "most greedy and least generous," and so on. This is not in accordance with the facts. We must affirm that all fraternal ethnic groups are diligent, kind, and creative ethnic groups that can strive for their own beautiful future. Even if they have some individual historical weaknesses, they were caused by the reactionary rule of the past and do not prevent them from having the same perseverance and hardworking qualities as the Han nationality.

The second issue is the position of ethnic minorities in the big family of the Chinese nation. Here, two viewpoints are sharply opposed. The first is the reactionary imperialist, capitalist, and feudalist viewpoint, which is the viewpoint aimed at enslaving other ethnic groups. The second is the progressive people's democratic viewpoint, the proletarian viewpoint, which is that the people of all ethnic groups are equal, united, and help each other, and jointly strive for a happy socialist future. This book views the problem from the first reactionary point of view. In the book, all ethnic minorities are regarded as "little people" who should be ruled. It is written: "The local little people are originally ignorant, and whoever comes to collect money and grain, they think they belong to whoever is in charge." Therefore, ethnic minorities who resisted the Kuomintang's Great Han rule were slandered as "traitors," "rebels," "cunning," "separatists," "lacking a sense of the country," "living solely by looting," etc. The few minorities who succumbed to the Kuomintang reactionaries were called "obedient people," "sincere," and "loyal." The truth is completely reversed here! Ethnic minorities who are fighting against Great Han Chauvinism should be respected by us because they are the historical progressive forces that overthrew the three mountains of feudalism, imperialism, and bureaucratic capitalism that were pressing on the heads of our people of all ethnic groups, and they are the fighting members of the people's democratic forces led by the proletariat. It is precisely all domestic reactionaries headed by the Kuomintang who are rebellious, cunning, separatist, lacking a sense of the country, and live solely by looting.

The author's erroneous idea of "distinguishing between Yi and Xia" is very clear. He uses nationalistic words such as "barbarian Yi countries" and "the majesty of Han officials" everywhere, and even associates the so-called "majesty" of "Han officials" with the "military achievements" of Zhao Erfeng, a Manchu slave and a butcher who slaughtered ethnic minorities, praising his "military and civil achievements and the far-reaching national power"! The author is truly so intoxicated by Great Han Chauvinism that he is almost confused! What kind of "Han official" is Zhao Erfeng!

Third, due to his incorrect stance, the author's plan for solving ethnic issues, which he planned out with "calloused hands," is also completely wrong. He believes that ethnic issues are only due to "difficult transportation," "the nature of the mountains makes people closed off," and "Tibet's isolation from the central government for the past thirty years is not for any other reason, but simply because the desolate Qinghai-Tibet and Qingkang roads are not convenient for many people to travel far." This kind of plan, which obscures the fact that the Kuomintang's Great Han Chauvinism is the root cause of the past ethnic divisions, is of course harmful. Moreover, he also advocates continuing to implement a plan of ethnic enslavement, such as so-called "combining kindness and power," "using military force as a guide," and "using Yi to control Yi," which seriously violates the ethnic policies of New China. In addition, he laments the Kuomintang reactionaries' lack of vigorous promotion of "orthodox Han culture" and advocates so-called "assimilation of foreign tribes." It goes without saying that the Kuomintang's "orthodox culture" is a reactionary culture and cannot be used to "assimilate." Cultural exchanges between ethnic groups mean that each ethnic group learns the culture of advanced ethnic groups on a voluntary basis in accordance with its own socio-economic conditions and customs and language habits. If you proclaim yourself "orthodox," rudely want others to assimilate, and "assimilate" indiscriminately, that is also very harmful.

It should be pointed out that the "Geography Teaching Manual" also has similar serious errors regarding Great Han Chauvinism; "The Geography of New China" is also not satisfactory in this regard. Due to space limitations, these will not be discussed further.

★ ★ ★

"The Geography of New China" claims to oppose bourgeois geographical determinism and the relationship between man and land, and advocates using the viewpoints of historical materialism and dialectical materialism to establish new geography. But in reality, this book makes many serious errors of geographical determinism and anti-patriotic viewpoints.

This book does not mention at all the role of the New Democratic social system in promoting and improving social productive forces, but only describes the role of natural conditions on productive forces in feudal society, which is often referred to as "determining" and "dominating." In the author's view, the productive forces in feudal agricultural society are precisely determined by the geographical environment.

For example, regarding the water system, the author wrote: The rise and fall of water conservancy is "the main factor determining the governance, chaos, rise, and fall of this kind of society." Regarding climate, the author even quoted sentences such as "Favorable weather brings peace and prosperity to the country," affirming that it is the "dominant factor" in the national economy and people's livelihood. Regarding rainfall, it is again "the main determinant of the advantages and disadvantages of my country's past agricultural production."

This statement is undoubtedly wrong. Because, first, the influence of natural conditions on social productive forces exists to a certain extent in any society, but it is not a determining factor in any society. Therefore, it is by no means the case that, as the author said, the "determining" and "dominating" role of natural conditions on social productive forces only changed after the feudal relations of production changed. As everyone knows, the characteristic of human society is that it can use labor to utilize nature and transform nature so that nature serves the progress of social productive forces. The difference between the struggle to transform nature in New Democratic society and socialist society and the struggle to transform nature in all past stages of social development lies in the fact that the former is based on a clear understanding of the laws of natural development, and in the struggle, there is no obstruction from backward relations of production. The ancient Chinese people's struggle to transform nature in feudal society can be seen even from the daily agricultural activities of ordinary farmers, such as digging wells and building canals, planting trees and afforestation, rotating crops and selecting seeds, and improving tools. As for the creative inventions of ancient China in astronomy, arithmetic, water conservancy, resource excavation, metal smelting, and machinery manufacturing, they are even more conducive to the improvement of productive forces. The author of this book completely ignores these ancient Chinese civilizations, which is not right. Secondly, although the author criticized the backwardness of the mode of production caused by feudal land exploitation relations, he still erroneously concluded that in this society "everything depends on nature. 'Favorable weather' means 'bumper harvests,' otherwise famine will occur immediately," and attributed the "historical water and drought disasters" to "insufficient rainfall and untimely rainfall." Therefore, the author actually attributes the "main" factor causing the backwardness of productive forces in feudal society to the limitations of natural conditions rather than the influence of backward relations of production. This is of course also not right.

Another serious error in this book is that when the author criticized the backwardness of feudal relations of production, he negated the superiority of our motherland's natural conditions.

For example, the author even called the fact that our motherland is "vast in territory and abundant in resources" a "foreign stereotype." Of course, old geographers were accustomed to talking abstractly about "vast territory and abundant resources" while ignoring the darkness of the old Chinese social system and political system. This point of view should be opposed. But the concept of "vast territory and abundant resources" itself is indeed the true situation in China.

The author made such an analysis of Chinese geography: "Plains, hills, and some coastal alluvial basins, suitable for production, are at most only 30%. Although the remaining 70% of mountains and plateaus are not absolutely impossible to produce, the weakness of productive forces and backward production technology in the past feudal agricultural society have made it impossible to produce, resulting in a large number of people densely concentrated in the plains, which account for less than one-third of the area. The uneven distribution of production has caused food shortages, which has become an irony of China, an agricultural country known as 'vast in territory and abundant in resources'!" This kind of argument is wrong. Because, first, the "barren" areas listed as mountains and plateaus, as the author pointed out, still have rich or generally not barren agricultural areas; at the same time, this area also has abundant non-agricultural underground resources; moreover, the territory of any country cannot all be rich plains and hills. Taking the United States, which the author used for comparison, there is at least one-third of the area that is "barren land." Second, the backwardness of the mode of production caused by the rule of feudal relations of production can only lead us to the conclusion that feudal relations of production should be destroyed, but cannot lead to the conclusion that China is not vast and resources are not abundant!

We cannot take many backward phenomena of old China to represent New China. We should hate the backwardness of old China, but we should especially make readers realize the superiority of our motherland's geography and the infinitely bright future of New China's construction, so as to correctly arouse the people's patriotic enthusiasm. This book focuses on collecting the backward phenomena of old China, and the description of New China is extremely brief, even still focusing on saying that it lacks this and that. For example: "Although our country is the world's largest rice-producing country, the people still feel insufficient food...", "The national cotton production...can only be 92% self-sufficient", tea "The national annual output is about 4.8 million dan, ranking first in the world. However, exports have long been overwhelmed by Japan and India, Ceylon," tobacco "The average annual output is about 14 million dan. This is again caused by British imperialism using my country's cheap tobacco and labor to set up cigarette factories in my country," tung oil "is a major export from my country, but in the past it was also manipulated by imperialist countries," aquatic products, forest products, and animal husbandry "are either primitive or backward, and are also plundered by imperialism," "Our country's agriculture and animal husbandry are backward, and the fishing industry was plundered by Japanese imperialism in the past," "In our country, forests are still regarded as objects of destruction," "China's iron ore reserves are not too many, and there is even less mining, and most of it was previously held by Japanese imperialism," "In 1949, the national grain production...decreased by a quarter compared with the pre-war period, and cotton production also shrank by 37% compared with the pre-war period..." All of this is very inconsistent with the title of this book. Not only have many of these phenomena been overthrown by the creative labor and construction undertakings of the people today, but even in the year before last and last year, such a focus on exposing the darkness of the past, without seeing the great power that New China's economic construction must have, is also a kind of ideological shortsightedness.

The author also ridiculed the fact that China has a large population. He wrote: "The number of 470 million alone cannot explain anything." How should it be explained? He pointed out that China's population is "unevenly distributed"; he also pointed out that Chinese people are born more and die more, die early, have more men than women, and have more agricultural population than other occupations. But can we deny the great advantages of our country's large population based on these backward phenomena caused by the evils of the reactionary ruling class of old China? What does a large population mean? It is a sign of the great potential of productive forces and combat effectiveness, which can play a great role under the superior system of New Democracy.

This book is obviously full of negative emotions. In the book, we cannot see the superiority of our motherland's geographical conditions, the historical civilization of our motherland, the great labor and creativity of our people, or the strength of our motherland today!

★ ★ ★

The "Geography Teaching Manual" made a serious mistake, that is, there are many pro-American arguments. It makes some purely quantitative comparisons between the economy of old China and the American economy, which has been on the capitalist road for more than a hundred years and has entered the decadent stage of imperialism.

In this book, the author enthusiastically describes how abundant the resources of the United States are, and that everything is the first in the United States. However, the description of the Soviet economy is very simple. It does not mention at all that the Soviet economy has surpassed the United States and ranked first in the world in terms of economic development speed, industrial and agricultural production efficiency, machinery manufacturing and industrial equipment, electric power industry, and waterpower utilization. It does not mention the fact that the United States lacks many important means of production and strategic materials, such as antimony, tungsten, tin, mercury, chromium, rubber, silk, platinum, wool, etc. It does not mention the importance of China's tungsten, which accounts for 43% of the world's total, antimony, which accounts for 67% of the world's total, and other rich export products such as tung oil in the world economy. Is this a book written from the standpoint of the Chinese people?

We have already pointed out that this book is a random plagiarism and is full of errors. We cannot list here its countless errors, even common sense errors. Now, let's point out some errors related to the above errors. For example, in a chart called "Occupational Distribution," it actually classifies the Soviet Union and China as pastoral areas, fishing and hunting areas, and agricultural areas, while the United States has industrial areas, and Europe is all industrial areas. It also says that Osaka, Japan, is "a large metropolis in Asia equal to Shanghai, Ningbo, and Suzhou combined"; "London gathers goods from all over the world"; Paris is "the cultural and artistic capital of Europe." Does the author have even the slightest knowledge of the world, the Soviet Union, and his own motherland?

Yes, the current figures for many of our resources are indeed less than those of the United States. The United States has accumulated more than a hundred years of resource survey results, while we have long been under the dark rule of imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism, and the construction of New Democracy is still in its initial stage, so countless rich underground resources have not yet been surveyed. Before the October Revolution, the coal reserves in the Soviet Union were only determined to be more than 238 billion tons, but in 1940 they were reassessed to be more than 1,654.4 billion tons; oil was estimated at 900 million tons before the revolution, but now it is estimated at more than 8.6 billion tons, and iron ore reserves were reassessed from 2 billion tons to 267.4 billion tons. Among them, iron and oil both rank first in the world. (This book says that the United States has the "richest iron ore," and "The Geography of New China" says that the United States has the world's largest oil reserves, both of which are wrong.) Therefore, we should not create the impression that China is poor in resources based on the various figures we know now. Any pessimism about our country's resources is unfounded.

Moreover, the problem does not lie in the figures. It is precisely the trick of capitalist country geographers to simply compare economies without considering social systems and political conditions. This trick must be exposed. We must recognize the decadence of the imperialist economy of the United States. For example, the crisis of the collapse of the American economy is approaching due to its overproduction and the political crisis of world capitalism. Whether a country is strong or not depends on whether its social system is consolidated or not. In this respect, the New Democratic New China is absolutely superior to the imperialist United States. Don't all the facts, especially the facts of the War to Resist US Aggression and Aid Korea, prove this? Therefore, it is completely wrong to simply compare countries with two different systems from the perspective of figures.

Lin Zhiqiao



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 清除大汉族主义和反爱国主义的地理学观点
林之樵
1951-06-25
第6版()
专栏：

　　清除大汉族主义和反爱国主义的地理学观点
    评：《边疆地理调查实录》严德一著商务印书馆一九五○年十二月初版
    《新中国的地理》  盛叙功著  同上  一九五○年八月初版
    《地理教学手册》  张粒民编  同上  一九五一年二月初版
    目前一些地理学书籍中存在着许多严重的思想错误和政治错误。最近我读了上开商务印书馆出版的三本书，现在把这三本书中主要的几个严重思想错误，提出来研究一下。
    《边疆地理调查实录》是作者严德一在一九三四——一九四一年间考察“边疆”的报告论文汇编。所谓“边疆”，是指康、青、滇三省的边地。把康、青称作边疆，就是一个严重错误。虽然作者在“前言”中说这本书是“栉风沐雨，披荆斩棘，胼手胝足，流汗流血得来”的，我们也应该承认这本书披露了一些原始材料，具有若干参考价值；但是本书渗透了反动的大汉族主义的观点，其基本政治论点都是错误的、荒谬的。更可怪的是：作者在“前言”中也自承有“庸俗的旧地理观点和不正确的语气”，却以“原稿既已制成纸型”为理由，不作任何修改就出版了。不论作者对自己的错误承认得如何不够，但既已明知有错误，还要以技术上的借口原封不动地来出版，这不是不负责任的作风是什么？这种作风，现在很普遍。我们已经看到许多旧版重印书，都是这样地不负责任。所以特别指出来，让大家知道，这种不顾出版物对国家对人民的有害影响的出版工作，是有失人民立场的。
    盛叙功的《新中国的地理》是另一种典型。作者企图用辩证唯物论与历史唯物论对旧的东西进行“批判”，结果出现了很严重的错误，我们必须把它指出来。
    张粒民的《地理教学手册》代表一种更恶劣的作风。编者在某些地方引用了一些进步词句，但是他编集材料完全站在资产阶级错误的角度。他依靠极少数的过时的书籍，抄袭附会，谬误百出。这本书几乎没有什么思想系统可言，是标准的不学无术的编辑匠的劣等产品。
    以下主要从民族问题和地理学问题两方面，把这三本书的内容加以简明的批判。
    ★      ★        ★
    为了正确执行新中国国内民族政策，应该反对传统的大汉族主义的思想。《边疆地理调查实录》就是一种露骨的大汉族主义的著作。
    第一个问题是对各少数民族称谓的问题。本书作者虽曾指出一些少数民族的正确的名称，如说滇边的“摆夷”应为“掸族”，“野人”应为“整颇”，康青番民应为藏族，但是极大多数地方仍然袭用大汉族主义的反动称谓，或称“夷”，或称“蛮”，或称“番”，或称“野”，或加“犭”旁，例如摆夷、倮夷、夷人、蛮夷、濮蛮、番子、番民、野人、??、野??等。因习尚不同而给少数民族各种称谓，本来只表示称呼者的无知和民族歧视，本书却仍然袭用了那些丑恶名称，如水摆夷、旱摆夷、山头、尖头阿卡、平头阿卡、露屁股阿卡等。
    不仅如此，本书还用种种诬蔑的词句评价各兄弟民族，如“自幼懒闲懦弱”、“懒得可怜”、“懒惰落伍的人种”、“无知无识”、“心最贪气量最小”等等。这是不合事实的，我们必须肯定各兄弟民族都是勤劳的，良善的、富有创造性的民族，是能够为自己美好的前途而努力奋斗的民族。即使他们具有某些个别的历史的弱点，那是以往反动统治所造成的，并不妨碍他们和汉民族同样具有坚忍、勤劳的品质。
    第二个问题是少数民族在中华民族的大家庭中所居地位的问题。在这里，两种观点是尖锐对立的。第一种是反动的帝国主义的、资本主义的、封建主义的观点，就是以奴役其他民族为目的的观点。第二种是进步的人民民主观点、无产阶级观点，就是各民族人民平等团结互助，共同为争取幸福的社会主义前途而奋斗的观点。本书正是用第一种反动观点来看问题的。书中把少数民族都看作理应被统治的“小民”，写道：“本地小民，原来无知，谁来征收钱粮，便认为归谁所管。”因此，反抗国民党大汉族统治的各少数民族，便被诬蔑为“叛族”、“叛乱”、“刁顽”、“割据”、“缺乏国家观念”、“专以劫掠为生”等等，向国民党反动派屈服的少数民族中的少数人，便被称为“顺民”、“诚服”、“忠义”。真理在这里完全颠倒了！进行反对大汉族主义的斗争的少数民族，理应受到我们的尊重，因为他们正是推翻压在我们各族人民头上的封建主义、帝国主义、官僚资本主义的三座大山的历史的进步力量，正是以无产阶级为首的人民民主力量的斗争成员。叛乱的、刁顽的、割据的、缺乏国家观念的、专以劫掠为生的，恰恰是以国民党为首的一切国内反动派。
    作者“夷夏之分”的谬误思想非常明确，他到处使用“蛮夷之邦”、“汉官威仪”之类的民族自大的词语，甚至把所谓“汉官”的“威仪”联系到满清奴才、屠杀少数民族的刽子手赵尔丰的“武功”上，不胜赞叹地称述他的“武功文治国威远扬”！作者真是被大汉族主义麻醉得近于昏乱了！赵尔丰究竟是哪一种“汉官”啊！
    第三，由于立场不正确，作者“胼手胝足”地筹划出来的解决民族问题的方案也是完全错误的。他认为民族问题只是由于“交通困难”，“山性使人闭塞”，“三十年来西藏对中央之孤立态度非有他故，实即因青藏青康两路之荒凉，不便于多人远行也。”这种抹煞国民党大汉族主义是造成过去民族间隔阂的根本原因的枝枝节节的方案，当然是有害的。而且他还主张继续实行民族奴役的方案，如所谓“恩威并济”、“以武力为前导”、“以夷制夷”等，更是严重地违反了新中国的民族政策。此外，他又慨叹国民党反动派的“汉族正统文化”提倡不力，主张所谓“同化异族”。国民党的“正统文化”是反动的文化，不能用它来“化”，是不用说的。民族间的文化交流，是各族按照自己的社会经济情况和风俗语言习惯，在自觉自愿的基础上学习先进民族的文化。如果自封为“正统”，粗暴地要别人同化，并且是不分青红皂白地“同化”；那也是十分有害的。
    应该指出来，关于大汉族主义，《地理教学手册》也有着类似的严重的错误；《新中国的地理》，在这方面也不能令人满意。限于篇幅，这些都不再谈了。
    ★  ★    ★
    《新中国的地理》宣称反对资产阶级的地理决定论和人地相关论，主张用历史唯物论和辩证唯物论的观点来建立新地理学。但实际上，这本书犯了许多地理决定论的和不符合爱国主义观点的重大错误。
    本书丝毫没有说到新民主主义的社会制度对于推动和提高社会生产力的作用，而只是在描写封建社会中自然条件对于生产力的作用，这种作用许多地方被称为“决定”的、“主宰”的。在作者看来，在封建的农业社会中的生产力，正是被地理环境决定的。
    例如关于水系，作者写道：治水事业的兴废，是“决定这种社会治乱兴亡的主要因素”。关于气候，作者更引用“风调雨顺，国泰民安”这样的句子，肯定它是国计民生的“主宰因素”。关于雨量，又是“主要的决定了我国以往农业生产以及利弊之所在”。
    这种说法无疑是错误的。因为第一，自然条件对社会生产力的影响，在任何社会都有一定程度的存在，但在任何社会都不是决定的因素。所以，决不是像作者所说，封建的生产关系改变之后，自然条件对社会生产力的“决定”、“主宰”作用才告改变。大家知道，人类社会的特征，就是能够以劳动利用自然、改造自然，使自然为社会生产力的进步服务。新民主主义社会和社会主义社会中改造自然的斗争和过去一切社会发展阶段中改造自然斗争的区别，在于前者是立足于明确认识自然发展的规律上，在斗争中，又没有落后的生产关系的阻碍。中国古代人民在封建社会中改造自然的斗争，即使从普通农民的开井修渠、植树造林、轮耕选种、改良工具等日常农事上，也可以看出来。至于我国古代在天文、数算、水利、资源发掘、五金冶炼、器械制造等方面的创造发明，更是大有利于生产力的提高。本书作者完全忽视这些古代中国的文明，是不对的。其次，虽然作者抨击了封建土地剥削关系造成生产方式的落后，但仍然错误地得出在这种社会中“一切依赖自然。‘风调雨顺’才是‘五谷丰登’，否则就饥荒立致”这样的错误结论，又把“历来水旱之灾”归因于“雨量不足和降雨失时”。所以，作者在实际上是把造成封建社会生产力落后的“主要”因素委之于自然条件的限制而不是落后的生产关系的影响了。这当然也是不对的。
    本书的另一个严重的错误，是作者在抨击封建生产关系的落后性的时候，竟把我们祖国自然条件的优厚性也一概地否定了。
    例如作者竟把我们祖国“地大物博”的这一事实称作“洋八股”。当然，旧的地理学者是惯于无视旧中国社会制度和政治制度的黑暗而抽象地谈论“地大物博”的，这个观点应该反对。但“地大物博”这个概念本身，确实是中国的真实情况。
    作者把中国地理作了这样一个分析：“平原丘陵及一部分的近海的冲积盆地，适合于生产的，最多亦不过百分之三十。虽则其余占百分之七十的山岳、高原，并不是绝对不可能生产，然而终因过去封建农业社会生产力的薄弱，落后的生产技术不能使之生产，以致大量人口都密集在仅占三分之一不到的平原地方，生产的不均，造成了粮食的恐慌，成了号称‘地大物博’的农业国家的中国的一种讽刺！”这样的论证是错误的。因为第一，被列入山岳、高原的“贫瘠”地区的，如作者所指出过的，仍有着富饶的或一般并不贫瘠的农业地区；同时，这一地区也还有丰饶的非农业的地下资源；而且，任何国家的疆域都不可能全部是平原、丘陵的富饶地区，以作者曾拿来比较的美国说，至少也有三分之一的地区是“不毛之地”。第二，封建生产关系统治下造成的生产方式落后，广大地区未被开发，只能使我们得出结论说：封建的生产关系是应该被破坏的，却不能得出结论说：中国地并不大、物并不博！
    我们不可以把旧中国的许多落后的现象拿来代表新中国。我们应该对旧中国的落后感到痛恨，但尤应该使读者认识我们祖国的地理的优越性，认识新中国的建设有无限光明前途，这样才能正确地激起人民的爱国主义热情。本书侧重于搜集旧中国的落后现象，对于新中国，则叙述得极为简略，甚至仍然着重说到缺这缺那。例如：“我国虽是世界产米最多的国家，但民食仍感不足……”，“全国棉产量……仅能自给百分之九二”，茶叶“全国年产额约为四百八十万市担，居世界第一。惟对外输出，却早已为日本和印度、锡兰所压倒”，烟叶“平均年产约一千四百万市担。这又是英帝国主义利用我国低廉烟草和劳动力在我国设厂制烟所引起的”，桐油“为我国输出大宗，不过过去亦是被帝国主义国家所操纵的”，水产、林产和畜产“不是保留着原始性的，就是表现着落后性，同时还受了帝国主义的掠夺”，“我国农牧是落后的，而渔业过去是被日本帝国主义所掠夺的”，“在我国，迄今还是把森林看作破坏的对象”，“中国铁矿储藏量并不太多，而开采的尤少，而且以前大多都握在日本帝国主义手中”，“一九四九年全国粮食生产……比战前降低了四分之一，棉产亦较战前缩小百分之三七……”。诸如此类，都是与本书的标题很不相称的。这些现象不但在今天事实上已有许多被人民创造性的劳动建设事业推翻了，就是在前年和去年，这样的侧重揭露过去的黑暗，看不到新中国经济建设必然有的伟大魄力，也是一种思想上的短视。
    对于中国人口众多这一点，作者也备加嘲笑。他写道：“单是四亿七千万这个数字，是不能说明什么的”。应该怎样说明呢？他指出了中国人口“分布不均”；又指出了中国人生得多也死得多、早死、男多女少、农业人口多于其他职业人口等等特征。但是我们难道可以根据这些由于旧中国反动统治阶级的罪恶而造成的落后现象来否定我国人口众多所产生的伟大优点么？人口众多的意思是什么呢？它是生产力和战斗力潜在力量伟大的标志，在新民主主义的优越制度下就能够发挥出伟大的作用来。
    这本书显然是充满消极情调的著作，在书中看不到我们祖国的地理条件的优越性，看不到我们祖国的历史文明，看不到我国人民的伟大的劳动创造力，看不到我们今天的祖国的强大有力！
          ★          ★        ★
    《地理教学手册》犯了这样一个严重错误，就是有许多崇美的论点，它把旧中国的经济和在资本主义道路上走了一百多年并且进入帝国主义腐朽阶段的美国经济，作一些纯数量的对比。
    在本书中热心地叙述美国的资源如何丰富，什么什么都是美国第一。但对于苏联经济的叙述又十分简单。对于苏联经济发展速度，工农业生产效率，机械制造以及工业装备，电力工业和水力的利用等等方面超过美国而居世界第一，一点没有提到。对于美国缺少许多重要的生产资料和战略资料的事实，如缺少锑、钨、锡、水银、铬、橡皮、丝、白金、羊毛等等，也没有提到。对于中国钨占全世界百分之四十三，锑占全世界百分之六十七，以及中国其他丰富的出口产品如桐油在世界经济上的重要意义，都没有提到。这难道是站在中国人民立场来写的书吗？
    我们已经指出本书是胡乱抄袭而成，是错误百出的。我们不能在这里举述其举不胜举的甚至是常识上的错误，现在再指出一些和上述错误相关的错误。例如在一幅叫做“职业分布”的图表中，它竟把苏联和中国都归入牧业区、渔猎业区和农业区的范围，而美国则拥有工业地区，欧洲全是工业地区。又说日本大阪是合上海、宁波、苏州之长的“亚东一个大都会”；“伦敦汇集世界货物”；巴黎是“全欧文化艺术的首都”。试问作者对世界、对苏联以及对自己的祖国有一点皮毛的认识吗？
    是的，我们有许多资源的现有数字的确少于美国。美国积累了一百多年的资源勘测成绩，而我们长期受着帝国主义、封建主义和官僚资本主义的黑暗统治，新民主主义的建设事业还在刚刚发轫时期，因而有无数的丰富的地下资源都还来不及勘查出来。苏联在十月革命前，煤的储藏量只被断定为二千三百八十余亿吨，一九四○年就已重估为一万六千五百四十四亿吨；石油在革命前估计为九亿吨，现在则估计为八十六亿余吨，铁的储藏量从二十亿吨重估为二千六百七十四亿吨。其中铁和石油都占世界第一。（本书说美国“铁矿最富”，“新中国的地理”说美国石油储量世界第一，都是错误的。）因此，我们不应根据现在所知道的各种数字来造成中国资源贫乏的印象。对我国资源的任何悲观都是没有根据的。
    而且，问题还并不在于数字上。离开社会制度和政治条件来单纯地比较经济，这正是资本主义国家地理学者惯做的把戏，这种把戏，必须揭穿。我们必须认识到美国的帝国主义经济的腐朽性，例如美国经济的崩溃危机，正在因其生产的过剩和世界资本主义的政治危机而日益临近。一个国家的强大与否，在于它的社会制度巩固与否，在这方面，新民主主义的新中国，是绝对优越于帝国主义的美国的，难道一切事实尤其是抗美援朝战争的事实不是这样说明的吗？因此，单纯从数字上比较两个不同制度的国家，是完全错误的。
                  林之樵
