Title: Mao Zedong Thought is the Integration of Marxism-Leninism with the Chinese Revolution (Written in Commemoration of the Thirtieth Anniversary of the Communist Party of China) (Part One)
Author: Chen Boda
Date: 1951-06-28
Page: 1

　　Mao Zedong Thought is the Integration of Marxism-Leninism with the Chinese Revolution
    (Written in Commemoration of the Thirtieth Anniversary of the Communist Party of China) (Part One)
     Chen Boda
  (I) Comrade Mao Zedong is the Most Outstanding Representative of Marxism-Leninism in China
    Comrade Mao Zedong wrote in "On the People's Democratic Dictatorship":
   “The salvoes of the October Revolution brought us Marxism-Leninism. The October Revolution helped the advanced elements of the whole world and of China to use the proletarian world outlook as a tool for observing the destiny of the country and reconsidering their own problems. Follow the path of the Russians – that was their conclusion.”
    As everyone knows, the first outstanding representative of these advanced elements in China was none other than Comrade Mao Zedong.
    Comrade Mao Zedong's greatest contribution to the Chinese revolution lies in his correct and vivid integration of the universal truth of Marxism-Leninism with the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution, solving a series of problems in the Chinese revolution. He promoted the development of Marxism-Leninism, this science, under the conditions of China and the East, thus guiding the victory of the Chinese people's revolution.
    Comrade Mao Zedong said: “The theories of Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin are universally applicable.” (Note 1) However, to correctly apply their theories to China, and transform them into the power of the masses, making them invincible, it is necessary to constantly eliminate ideological obstacles, and wage ideological battles, and indeed, fierce battles. Over the past thirty years, Comrade Mao Zedong has waged irreconcilable struggles against various reactionary trends of thought outside the Party and various forms of opportunism within the Party, such as opposing the Statist faction, opposing the Right-wing of the Kuomintang and its conciliators, opposing Chen Duxiu-ism, opposing Trotskyism, opposing various reformist illusions of the bourgeoisie and petty bourgeoisie regarding the Kuomintang's counter-revolutionary rule, opposing several "Left" adventurisms within the Party, opposing the re-edition of Chen Duxiu-ism's errors, and so on. In this series of struggles, Comrade Mao Zedong demonstrated that he was a great master of disseminating and applying the revolutionary doctrines of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin. This series of struggles he waged strengthened and consolidated the Communist Party of China.
    The unity of theory and practice is a characteristic of Marxism-Leninism. In revolutionary China, Comrade Mao Zedong, following the masters Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin, similarly paid extreme attention to the great creativity of the revolutionary masses. Comrade Mao Zedong never separated his Marxist-Leninist theoretical work from the revolutionary movement of the masses. He constantly linked it to the practice of the Chinese revolution, "using the fundamental viewpoint of Marxism – the method of class analysis" (as Comrade Mao Zedong often said), to examine, absorb, and concentrate the experiences of various practices of the Chinese revolution. This further proved the correctness of Marxism-Leninism, revealing the infinite and vivid revolutionary power of Marxism-Leninism.
    Comrade Mao Zedong relied precisely on the creativity of the Chinese revolutionary masses, relying on the complex experiences of all aspects of the Chinese revolution, and it was precisely on these foundations that he developed Marxism-Leninism, and made all the nonsense that attempted to undermine or distort Marxism-Leninism inevitably declare bankruptcy before the masses.
    In 1922, Lenin published the famous article “On the Significance of Militant Materialism,” stating: “…Marx applied this dialectic method most successfully, with the result that now every new class is arising to life and to struggle in all Eastern countries (Japan, India, and China) — that is to say, hundreds of millions of human beings, who form the greater part of the world’s population and whose historical passivity and historical somnolence have hitherto caused stagnation and decay in many advanced countries of Europe. And the fact that these new classes and new nations are rising to struggle is being strikingly confirmed by the increasing clarity with which they are adopting this Marxist method.” Without a doubt, the fact that the Chinese people, under the leadership of the Chinese working class, have risen up to struggle and their recent great victory is precisely a vivid confirmation of the large-scale and prominent victory of Marxism-Leninism in the East, confirming that the doctrines of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin are, without exception, a universally omnipotent science for the whole world, and confirming the brilliant success achieved by Comrade Mao Zedong, the leader of the Chinese Communist Party, in applying this science to the conditions of China and developing it.
        (II) Modern China is the Focus of Many Contradictions in the East
    For the past century, especially since the end of the 19th century, China has been the focus of many contradictions in the East.
    First, China was a semi-colony of various imperialist powers. All the imperialist countries in the world intervened in China, treating it as the largest piece of fat to be contested for.
    In 1916, Lenin pointed out in his book "Imperialism, the Highest Stage of Capitalism": “In the epoch of finance capital, when the world is already divided up, and when all the land has been divided, there inevitably begins the epoch of the general redivision of the world; it is a period of especially sharp struggle among the great powers for the division and redivision of the world.” "The partition of China by imperialism has only just begun. The struggle between Japan and the United States for the conquest of China is becoming increasingly intense."
    Stalin pointed out in 1927: "China is a densely populated country with hundreds of millions of people in terms of nationality, and it is an extremely important market for selling goods and exporting capital throughout the world... Imperialism must cut into the living body of national China, divide it into pieces, and seize its entire provinces in order to maintain their old positions, or at least maintain a part of these positions..." (Note 2)
    Because all imperialist powers regarded China as their object of dismemberment, they had formed a united front on many occasions to oppose the Chinese revolution (for example, in 1900, the Eight-Nation Alliance of imperialist powers attacked Beijing, massacring patriotic masses of the Boxers; in 1927, various imperialist powers jointly opposed the Chinese Great Revolution), or formed a situation of jointly dismembering China. However, because each imperialist power had its own monopolistic ambition to seize the greatest benefits, it formed deep contradictions between them, forming—as Comrade Mao Zedong said—"the mutual struggle among imperialists in China."
    That is to say, the contradictions of various imperialist powers fighting for China made their front in China divided, not united.
    Second, the contradictions and struggles between the various imperialist powers influenced the complication and intensification of the contradictions and struggles within the old ruling class of China—the feudal comprador class—and evolved into continuous wars between warlords.
    Comrade Mao Zedong said in 1928: "The continuous wars between the various factions of new and old warlords supported by the comprador bourgeois class since the first year of the Republic of China are one of the characteristics of semi-colonial China... There are two reasons for this phenomenon: namely, the local agricultural economy (not a unified capitalist economy) and the policy of divided exploitation of the imperialist spheres of influence." (Note 3)
    That is to say, the Chinese feudal comprador class served different imperialist powers and represented different local feudal forces, making the inside of their ruling camp divided, not united.
    Third, the combined oppression of imperialism and feudalism caused extremely deep suffering to the Chinese people. However, since the Opium War in 1840, the Chinese people's struggle against imperialism and feudalism has always been continuous, rising one after another, without interruption. If there was any interruption, it was only for a very short time. Also, because China is a large country with a large population, the people mobilized in each struggle were always enormous in number.
    The Chinese people have fought against every imperialist who has invaded China. The Chinese people have never succumbed to any counter-revolutionary dynasty. China has been a country in a long-term revolution.
    That is to say, the contradiction between the Chinese people and imperialism and feudalism is irreconcilable, and in the struggle against imperialism and feudalism, the people gradually formed an extremely powerful united force.
    From the above, it can be known that modern China is the focus of contradictions in the East. Mainly, one is the focus of fierce contention among various imperialist powers, and the other is the focus of fierce struggle between revolution and counter-revolution.
    Obviously, only the victory of the Chinese people's revolution can resolve these contradictions and make the chain of imperialism in the East be broken first in China. The Chinese people have the power to win this victory. But the power of the Chinese people can only be organized into a power that can truly win victory when it is under the leadership of the proletariat.
    The Chinese working class formed its distinctive militancy for two important reasons: first, it suffered several layers of cruel oppression, namely the oppression of foreign imperialism, domestic feudalism, and capitalism; second, it was very concentrated. Although Chinese industry was very weak, it was very concentrated. A large number of modern industrial workers worked in enterprises with more than 500 workers. These reasons made the Chinese working class, which was in revolution, form a very strong combat effectiveness, form its own strong political party—the Communist Party, and become the leader of all revolutionary classes in China.
    In such a large country with a long-term revolution, there is such a strong revolutionary working class to become the leader of the extremely vast and fully militant peasants, to become the leader of all revolutionary forces; and on the international scale, this is the era of proletarian revolution, the era of socialism that has first won in Russia, the Chinese revolution has good international assistance; these explain: The victory of the Chinese people's revolution, the victory of the Chinese people against imperialism and its running dogs, the feudal comprador class, is inevitable.
    In 1927, Stalin pointed out:
    "In China, the anti-imperialist struggle must take on a profound, popular and distinct national character, and it must deepen step by step until it engages in a desperate duel with imperialism and shakes the very foundations of imperialism throughout the world." (Note 4)
    Things have turned out to be exactly like this.
    Of course, it is impossible to imagine that the revolution could easily achieve victory in this large country that had become the focus of contention among various imperialist powers and that had a long-standing feudal system. No, it is impossible to achieve victory easily. In an essay written in August 1949, Comrade Mao Zedong described the process of achieving this victory: "Struggle, fail, struggle again, fail again… accumulate a hundred and nine years of experience, accumulate the experience of hundreds of struggles, large and small, military and political, economic and cultural, bloody and bloodless, and only then achieve today’s basic success.” (Note 5) This means: The Chinese revolution is extremely cruel, complex, and tortuous. In this way, the Chinese working class and the Chinese people have been greatly tempered, and the Chinese working class's political party—the Communist Party of China—has been greatly tempered. And this rich revolutionary experience has become a very precious wealth of the Chinese working class and the Chinese people; this rich revolutionary experience has inevitably enriched the theory of Marxism-Leninism.
    China's rich revolutionary experience is concentratedly manifested in Comrade Mao Zedong's works, and concentratedly manifested as Mao Zedong Thought.
    In November 1919, Lenin pointed out to the Eastern communists:
    “Here you are confronted with a task which has not previously confronted the Communists all over the world: relying upon the general theory and practice of Communism, you must adapt yourselves to specific conditions such as do not exist in the European countries; you must be able to apply that theory and practice to conditions in which the bulk of the population are peasants – conditions in which the task is to wage a struggle not against capitalism, but against medieval survivals.”
    “You must find specific forms for this alliance of the foremost proletarians of the world with the labouring and exploited masses of the East whose conditions are in many cases medieval.”
    Lenin continued to point out:
    “The task is to awaken the revolutionary activity, the revolutionary initiative of the masses; to organise them, regardless of the level they are on; to translate the true communist doctrine, which was intended for the Communists of the more advanced countries, into the language of every people; to carry out those practical tasks which must be carried out immediately, and to join the proletariat of other countries in a common struggle.
    That is the task you are confronted with, and that is a task which has not been confronted by the Communists all over the world, and it is one which you must fulfill independently.” (Note 6)
    Everyone knows: Lenin and Stalin, in a series of their works, have already solved the tasks Lenin raised here in basic principles, and Stalin has made outstanding theoretical contributions to the Chinese issue.
    The task of Comrade Mao Zedong, the leader of the Communist Party of China, is to continue the work of Lenin and Stalin, constantly examine China's experience, integrate the general theory and practice of communism with the concrete practice of the Chinese revolution, translate the true communist doctrine used by the communists of advanced countries into the language of the Chinese people, supplement it according to China's conditions, transform it into the theory and practice of the Chinese revolution, inspire hundreds of millions of people to merge with the general struggle against imperialism throughout the world, unite with the Soviet Socialist Republics Union, with the working classes and advanced people of various countries, and with all oppressed nations, and as a result, buried the rule of imperialism and its running dogs on the great land of China.
  (III) The Chinese Revolution is a Part of the World Revolution
    To regard the liberation movement of oppressed nations as a part of the world proletarian socialist revolution is the theory of Lenin and Stalin.
    According to the theories of Lenin and Stalin, Comrade Mao Zedong never regarded the Chinese revolution as an isolated issue, but viewed it from the overall situation of the world proletarian revolution and from the overall situation of the anti-imperialist struggle.
    This is because the era we are in is the era of imperialism and proletarian revolution, the era of socialism that has first won in the Soviet Union, and the new era of Marxism, namely the era of Leninism. This is because the Chinese revolution is first and foremost an anti-imperialist revolution.
    In March 1926, in the article "Analysis of the Classes in Chinese Society," Comrade Mao Zedong analyzed the situation of the world being divided into two major camps in order to criticize Dai Jitao-ism of the Kuomintang at that time:
    "...The present world situation is precisely one in which the two great forces, revolution and counter-revolution, are locked in final struggle. These two great forces have raised two great banners: one is the red banner of revolution held aloft by the Third International, calling upon all the oppressed classes of the world to rally around it; the other is the white banner of counter-revolution held aloft by the League of Nations, calling upon all the counter-revolutionaries of the world to rally around it. The intermediate classes are bound to disintegrate quickly, some turning left to join the revolution, others turning right to join the counter-revolution; there is no room for them to remain "independent"."
    What Comrade Mao Zedong said here clearly divides the world situation after the October Socialist Revolution into an anti-imperialist camp under the leadership of the world proletarian socialist revolution, and another imperialist camp on which all counter-revolutionary forces depend. The Kuomintang's Dai Jitao faction, which represented the right wing of the bourgeoisie, was actually preparing the mouthpiece of Chiang Kai-shek's counter-revolution. They opposed the doctrine of class struggle and opposed the Kuomintang's alliance with Russia and the Communist Party,妄想"independent" in the middle of the two major camps, realizing the so-called country ruled by one class of the bourgeoisie. Comrade Mao Zedong pointed out that their attempt would completely go bankrupt. The disintegration of the intermediate classes is inevitable. The national bourgeoisie either goes to the left, unites with Russia and the Communist Party, recognizes the leadership of the proletariat, and merges with the world's anti-imperialist general struggle; or goes to the right, opposes the Soviet Union and the Communist Party, opposes the proletarian revolution, and becomes the running dog of imperialism; other than that, there is no room for "independence." Everyone knows: the facts at that time were like this: the right wing of the national bourgeoisie soon ran to the imperialist side with Chiang Kai-shek's counter-revolution.
    During the Anti-Japanese War, due to the advocacy of our Party, a broad national united front was re-established. However, the Kuomintang diehards once again played up the platitudes of bourgeois dictatorship, which in practice was used to cover up and adhere to the dictatorship of the large landlords and bureaucratic bourgeoisie represented by Chiang Kai-shek, the Kuomintang's "one-party dictatorship"; this type of dictatorship was also the semi-colonial and semi-feudal dictatorship referred to by Comrade Mao Zedong. On the other hand, within our Party, a right-leaning opportunism reappeared, attempting to turn the proletariat into the tail of the big bourgeoisie. In order to smash the various fallacies of the Kuomintang diehards and the right-leaning opportunism within the Party, so that the Chinese proletariat, the broad masses of the Chinese people, and our Party would not lose their way in this complex situation of the new national united front, Comrade Mao Zedong wrote an important combat work, namely "On New Democracy."
    In this combat new work, Comrade Mao Zedong more concretely and profoundly developed the above-mentioned theories of Lenin and Stalin on colonial and semi-colonial revolutions. Comrade Mao Zedong quoted Stalin's articles and, based on the long-term re-accumulation of experience in the Chinese revolution, re-proposed and discussed in detail the basic direction of the Chinese revolution—that is, the issue of the basic line of the Chinese revolution.
    Comrade Mao Zedong explained: "The first victorious socialist October Revolution changed the entire direction of history and divided the entire era of world history." He went on to write:
    "In an era when the world capitalist front has already collapsed in one corner of the earth (this corner accounts for one-sixth of the world's land) and the decay of the remaining corners is already fully revealed, in an era when these remaining capitalist parts cannot survive without greater dependence on colonies and semi-colonies, in an era when socialist countries have been established and announced their willingness to fight to support the liberation movements of all colonies and semi-colonies, in an era when the proletariats of various capitalist countries are being liberated from the influence of social-imperialist social democratic parties day by day and announcing their support for the liberation movements of colonies and semi-colonies, in this era, if any colony or semi-colony country experiences a revolution against imperialism, i.e. against the international bourgeoisie, against international capitalism, it no longer belongs to the category of the old world bourgeois democratic revolution, but belongs to a new category, it is no longer a part of the old bourgeois and capitalist world revolution, but a part of the new world revolution, but a part of the proletarian socialist world revolution."
    This is a fundamental estimate and a fundamental analysis of Marxism-Leninism regarding colonial and semi-colonial revolutions. From this analysis, it is natural to draw an extremely clear conclusion regarding the basic direction of the Chinese revolution, which is: The Chinese revolution is a part of the proletarian socialist world revolution. This conclusion also explains the following points:
    First: "This kind of revolution thoroughly strikes at imperialism, so it is not allowed by imperialism, but is opposed by imperialism. But it is allowed by socialism, and is assisted by socialist countries and the international proletariat." "In this world, all imperialists are our enemies. China wants independence and cannot leave the assistance of socialist countries and the international proletariat. That is to say, it cannot leave the assistance of the Soviet Union, and cannot leave the assistance of the proletariats of Japan, Britain, the United States, France, Germany, and Italy in carrying out anti-capitalist struggles in their own countries."
    Second: "Any hero in the colonies and semi-colonies must either stand on the imperialist front and become a part of the world counter-revolution; or stand on the anti-imperialist front and become a part of the world revolution. One of the two must be chosen, and there is no other way." "Once the struggle between socialist Soviet Union and imperialism is further sharpened, China will either stand on this side or that side, and this is an inevitable trend. Can't it be impartial? This is a dream. The whole world will be involved in these two fronts, and in the future world, "neutrality" is just a deceptive term."
    Third: "The current world is in a new era of revolution and war, an era in which capitalism is bound to die and socialism is bound to prosper. Under such circumstances, is it not a complete delusion to establish a bourgeois dictatorship capitalist society after the victory of anti-imperialist and anti-feudal struggles in China?" "This is decisive, certain, and true. If the Chinese bourgeois diehards do not wake up, their affairs are not beautiful, and they will get a dead-end future."
    Fourth: "The communist ideology and social system are surging across the world with overwhelming force, thunderous power, and youthful vigor. Since China has scientific communism, people's horizons have been raised, and the Chinese revolution has changed its face. The Chinese democratic revolution cannot succeed without the guidance of communism, let alone the later stage of the revolution... The current world relies on communism as a savior, and so does the current China." "Whoever is anti-communist should prepare to be turned into powder."
    The above-mentioned viewpoints were all pointed out by Comrade Mao Zedong in this "On New Democracy" work ten years ago. Since then, Comrade Mao Zedong has continued to develop the above-mentioned viewpoints in many works. The changes in the world and in China over the past decade have confirmed Comrade Mao Zedong's above-mentioned viewpoints one by one.
    Of course, the development of these viewpoints also shattered the narrow and reactionary nationalism of the bourgeoisie and cleared away the national prejudices of the petty bourgeoisie that were satisfied with a backward, isolated small world.
    Using the theories of Marx, Engels, Lenin, and Stalin, especially the theories of Lenin and Stalin, examining the Chinese revolution from the basic viewpoint of the era of imperialism and proletarian revolution, analyzing the Chinese revolution, and thus developing this basic viewpoint and guiding the Chinese revolution to advance in the right direction is the path to the victory of Mao Zedong Thought.
  (IV) The Proletarian-Led Revolution of the People's Masses
    Comrade Mao Zedong, based on the fundamental changes in world history caused by the October Socialist Revolution and the fundamental changes in Chinese history caused by the Chinese modern proletariat's ascent to the political stage, pointed out that the Chinese revolution before these changes was the old democratic revolution, that is, the democratic revolution under the leadership of the bourgeoisie; the Chinese revolution after these changes was the new democratic revolution, that is, the democratic revolution under the leadership of the proletariat.
    Comrade Mao Zedong, from opposing Chen Duxiu's right-leaning opportunism in the first revolutionary period after the establishment of the Party, has consistently adhered to the theories of Lenin and Stalin on proletarian leadership under any circumstances. In the early stages of the Anti-Japanese War, Comrade Mao Zedong waged irreconcilable struggles against the newly emerging right-leaning opportunism, and often particularly emphasized the need to be wary of the criminal consequences of the revolutionary failure caused by Chen Duxiu's opportunism in abandoning proletarian leadership in 1927. Comrade Mao Zedong often told Chinese communists to be well-versed in Lenin's "Two Tactics", a work of great thought. Comrade Mao Zedong used Lenin's work as a powerful weapon against right-leaning opportunism.
    The issue of proletarian leadership of the Chinese revolution is linked to the weakness of the Chinese national bourgeoisie. In 1926, Stalin's article "On the Future of the Chinese Revolution" said the following about the weakness of the national big bourgeoisie: "From this, it can be concluded that the role of the initiators and leaders of the Chinese revolution, the role of the leaders of the Chinese peasants, must inevitably fall into the hands of the Chinese proletariat and its party."
    Comrade Mao Zedong said: "Chinese affairs are very clear. Whoever can lead the people to overthrow imperialism and feudal forces can gain the people's belief, because the people's mortal enemies are imperialism and feudal forces, especially imperialism... History has proven that the Chinese bourgeoisie cannot fulfill this responsibility, and this responsibility has to fall on the shoulders of the proletariat." (Note 7)
    Comrade Mao Zedong pointed out: "The historical process of the Chinese revolution must be divided into two steps: the first step is the democratic revolution, and the second step is the socialist revolution." The first stage, the first step, of the Chinese revolution, although its social nature is basically still a bourgeois democratic revolution, "however, this revolution is no longer the old revolution that is led by the bourgeoisie and aims to establish a capitalist society and a bourgeois dictatorship, but a new revolution that is led by the proletariat and aims to establish a new democratic society and a state of joint dictatorship of various revolutionary classes in the first stage." (Note 8)
    Comrade Mao Zedong stipulated this revolution as the following simple and clear formula: "The new democratic revolution is a revolution of the people's masses under the leadership of the proletariat against imperialism and feudalism." In some places, Comrade Mao Zedong also called it "a people's democratic revolution against imperialism and feudal forces." Because the four major families headed by Chiang Kai-shek finally formed a monopoly group of bureaucratic capital in the long process of counter-revolution, this revolutionary nature added a new thing, namely anti-bureaucratic capital. Comrade Mao Zedong added this new thing of anti-bureaucratic capital to this formula, and it became the following formula: "A revolution led by the proletariat, of the people's masses, against imperialism, feudalism and bureaucratic capitalism." Comrade Mao Zedong believed that this was the general line and general policy of the first stage of the Chinese revolution.
    The people's masses mentioned in this formula proposed by Comrade Mao Zedong mainly refer to the peasants. This revolution is based on the alliance of workers and peasants, but includes all those who are anti-imperialist, anti-feudal, and anti-bureaucratic capital. In Comrade Mao Zedong's view, the Chinese proletariat, peasants, intellectuals and other petty bourgeois are the basic forces that determine the fate of the country, and the proletariat is the leading force.
    The class foundation of the revolutionary democratic dictatorship established by this revolution is of course also like this. Comrade Mao Zedong called this revolutionary democratic dictatorship "a joint dictatorship of various revolutionary classes under the leadership of the proletariat" and also called it "a people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants."
    In Comrade Mao Zedong's view, the issue of proletarian leadership is the central issue for solving a series of problems in the Chinese revolution and the central issue related to the success or failure of the revolution. In May 1937, Comrade Mao Zedong raised the following issue regarding the anti-Japanese national united front: "Should the proletariat follow the bourgeoisie, or should the bourgeoisie follow the proletariat? This issue of the leadership responsibility of the Chinese revolution is the key to the success or failure of the revolution." (Note 9) In his famous article "On the People's Democratic Dictatorship" in 1949, he pointed out: "The entire revolutionary history proves that without the leadership of the working class, the revolution will fail, and with the leadership of the working class, the revolution will triumph. In the era of imperialism, any other class in any country cannot lead any real revolution to victory. The failure of the Chinese petty bourgeoisie and national bourgeoisie who have led revolutions many times is a clear proof."
    At the same time, in Comrade Mao Zedong's view, the issue of peasants is the central issue for solving the proletarian leadership.
    In his report on the national and colonial questions at the Second Congress of the Communist International, Lenin proposed that "Anyone who imagines that a proletarian party--if it can generally arise in such countries--can implement communism and communist policies in these backward countries without establishing a certain relationship with the peasants, without in fact assisting the peasant movement, is a daydream."
    Stalin pointed out several times: "The national question is essentially the peasant question." (Note 10)
    Comrade Mao Zedong's view on the Chinese question followed Lenin and Stalin's view.
    In the bourgeois democratic revolution, the main difference between the proletariat and the bourgeoisie, and all other parties, is the issue of the peasants. In his work "On Coalition Government," Comrade Mao Zedong pointed out: "The Kuomintang anti-people group mobilized all its forces and released all kinds of vicious arrows at the Chinese Communist Party: overt and covert, military and political, bloody and bloodless. The dispute between the two parties, in terms of its social nature, is essentially on the issue of rural relations."
    Leading the peasant revolution is the fundamental symbol of proletarian leadership. The bourgeoisie cannot become the leader of the bourgeois democratic revolution basically because it cannot lead the peasant revolution, fears the peasant revolution, and opposes the peasant revolution. Without a doubt, only the leadership of the proletariat can effectively organize the extremely vast and extremely scattered peasants into an endless fighting force, and only then can we talk about the alliance of workers and peasants, and only then can we talk about uniting all possible revolutionary forces to our side on the basis of this alliance, and only then can we talk about the unity of the Chinese revolution and international revolutionary forces.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 毛泽东思想是马克思列宁主义与中国革命的结合（为纪念中国共产党的三十周年而作）（之一）
陈伯达
1951-06-28
第1版()
专栏：

　　毛泽东思想是马克思列宁主义与中国革命的结合
    （为纪念中国共产党的三十周年而作）（之一）
     陈伯达
  （一）毛泽东同志是马克思列宁主义在中国最杰出的代表
    毛泽东同志所著“论人民民主专政”写道：
    “十月革命一声炮响，给我们送来了马克思列宁主义。十月革命帮助了全世界的也帮助了中国的先进分子，用无产阶级的宇宙观作为观察国家命运的工具，重新考虑自己的问题。走俄国人的路——这就是结论。”
    如大家所知道的：中国这种先进分子第一个杰出的代表者，不是别人，正是毛泽东同志。
    毛泽东同志对于中国革命的最伟大的功劳，便是他正确地和生动地把马克思列宁主义的普遍真理和中国革命的具体实践结合起来，解决了中国革命中一系列的问题。他在中国和东方的条件下推进了马克思列宁主义这个科学的发展，因而指导了中国人民革命的胜利。
    毛泽东同志说：“马克思、恩格斯、列宁、斯大林的理论，是放之四海而皆准的理论。”（注一）但是要正确地运用他们的理论到中国来，使之变成大众的力量，而战无不胜，这就必须经常清除思想上的障碍物，进行思想上的战斗，而且是猛烈的战斗。三十年来毛泽东同志不断地和党外的各种反动思潮及党内的各种机会主义，作了不调和的斗争，例如，反对国家主义派，反对国民党右派及其调和派，反对陈独秀主义，反对托洛茨基主义，反对资产阶级和小资产阶级右翼对于国民党反革命统治的各种改良主义幻想，反对党内几次的“左”倾冒险主义，反对再版的陈独秀主义的错误，等等。毛泽东同志在这一连串的斗争中，表现出他是传播和运用马克思、恩格斯、列宁、斯大林的革命学说的伟大能手。他所进行的这一连串的斗争，壮大了和巩固了中国共产党。
    理论与实践的统一，是马克思列宁主义的特点。毛泽东同志在革命的中国，追随马克思、恩格斯、列宁和斯大林这些大师，和他们同样，极端注视革命群众的伟大创造力。毛泽东同志从来不把他所从事的马克思列宁主义的理论工作和群众的革命运动分离开来。他随时随地联系着中国革命的实践，“用马克思主义的根本观点——阶级分析的方法”（如毛泽东同志所常说的），去考察、吸引和集中中国革命各种实践的经验。这就进一步地证明了马克思列宁主义的正确，显出马克思列宁主义有无限的、生动的革命威力。
    毛泽东同志正是依靠中国革命群众的创造力，依靠中国革命各方面复杂的经验，正是在这些基础上，发展了马克思列宁主义，并使得那种企图破坏或歪曲马克思列宁主义的一切胡说，不能不在群众面前一一宣告破产。
    一九二二年列宁发表的名文“论战斗唯物论的意义”说过：“……马克思把这个辩证法运用得极有成效，以致现在东方各国（日本、印度和中国）新兴阶级，即占世界人口大多数但历来都因消极冷淡与沉眠不醒而使欧洲许多先进国内发生停顿腐败情形的数万万人民奋起斗争的事实，新民族与新阶级奋起斗争的事实，日益鲜明地证实着马克思主义。”毫无疑问：中国人民在中国工人阶级领导下奋起斗争及其最近伟大胜利的事实，正是极鲜明地证实着马克思列宁主义在东方的大规模的突出的胜利，证实着马克思、恩格斯、列宁和斯大林的学说对于全世界乃是毫无例外的普遍的万能的科学，证实着中国共产党领袖毛泽东同志把这个科学应用到中国的条件来，并发展了它，其所达到的成功乃是非常光辉的。
        （二）近代中国是东方许多矛盾的焦点
    近百年以来，特别是十九世纪末年以来，在东方，中国曾经是许多矛盾的焦点。
    第一，中国曾经是各帝国主义的半殖民地，世界上所有的帝国主义国家都插手到中国来，并把它当成一块最大的肥肉去争夺。
    一九一六年列宁在《帝国主义是资本主义的最高阶段》一书指出：“在世界已分割完结的财政资本时代，争夺这些半独立国的斗争，当然是特别的紧张。”“帝国主义之瓜分中国，还刚才开始。日美等国间为夺取中国的斗争，日益紧张起来。”
    斯大林在一九二七年曾经指出：“中国是在民族方面稠密的有几万万人口的国家，是全世界上极重要的出售商品和输出资本的市场。……帝国主义就必须从民族的中国之活的身体上开刀，把它分割成碎片，夺取它整个省份，以保持他们的旧有阵地，或者最低限度维持这些阵地的一部分。……”（注二）
    由于各帝国主义都以中国为其宰割的对象，所以帝国主义曾经在许多场合形成过统一战线，用以反对中国的革命（例如：一九○○年帝国主义八国联军进攻北京，屠杀义和团的爱国群众；一九二七年各帝国主义联合反对中国大革命），或形成了共同宰割中国的局面。可是，又由帝国主义间各有占取最大利益的垄断野心，所以就形成了它们彼此之间深刻的矛盾，形成了——如毛泽东同志所说的——“帝国主义在中国相互间的斗争”。
    这就是说，各帝国主义争夺中国的矛盾，使它们在中国的阵线是分裂的，而不是统一的。
    第二，各帝国主义间的矛盾和斗争，影响到中国旧统治阶级——封建买办阶级内部的矛盾及其斗争的复杂化和激化，并演化为军阀间的不断的战争。
    毛泽东同志在一九二八年说：“买办豪绅阶级支持着的国内各派新旧军阀，从民国元年以来，他们中间的继续不断的战争，这是半殖民地中国的特征之一。……这种现象产生的原因有两种：即地方的农业经济（不是统一的资本主义经济）与帝国主义势力范围的分裂剥削政策。”（注三）
    这就是说，中国封建买办阶级分别为不同的帝国主义服务和代表不同的地方封建势力，使它们的统治营垒的内部是分裂的，而不是统一的。
    第三，帝国主义和封建主义的联合压迫，使中国人民遭受了极深重的灾难。但是，从一八四○年鸦片战争以来，中国人民反帝国主义和反封建主义的斗争，总是前仆后继，此伏彼起，没有中断过。如说有什么中断的话，也只在一些很短的时间。又因为中国是人口众多的大国，在每次斗争中所动员起来的人们，总是数量很巨大的。
    中国人民和每一个侵略中国的帝国主义者都打过仗。中国人民从来没有向任何反革命王朝屈服过。中国曾经是一个处在长期革命中的国家。
    这就是说，中国人民和帝国主义、封建主义的矛盾是不可调和的，人民在反对帝国主义和封建主义的斗争中逐步地形成了一个极其强大的联合的力量。
    由上述种种可知：近代中国表现出是东方矛盾的焦点，主要地说来，其一是各帝国主义相互间激烈争夺的焦点，又其一是革命和反革命激烈斗争的焦点。
    显然，只有中国人民革命的胜利，才能够解决这些矛盾，而使帝国主义在东方的锁链首先在中国被突破。中国人民是有赢得这胜利的力量的。但是中国人民的力量，只有当其在无产阶级的领导之下，才能够组织成为真正能够赢得胜利的力量。
    中国工人阶级形成其特出的战斗性，有两个重要的原因：第一，它身受几重残酷的压迫，即外国的帝国主义、本国的封建主义和资本主义的压迫；第二，它是很集中的。中国工业虽然很薄弱，但却很集中，近代产业工人在有五百个工人以上的企业内做工的，占很大的数目。这些原因，就使得处在革命中的中国工人阶级形成了很强大的战斗力，形成了自己坚强的政党——共产党，并成为中国各革命阶级的领袖。
    在这样长期革命的大国中，有这样坚强的革命工人阶级成为极其广大而富有充分战斗性的农民的领袖，成为一切革命力量的领袖；而在国际范围内，这是正处在无产阶级革命的时代，正处在社会主义已首先在俄国胜利的时代，中国革命有了很好的国际援助；这些就是说明：中国人民革命的胜利，中国人民反对帝国主义及其走狗封建买办阶级的胜利，乃是不可避免的。
    一九二七年斯大林指出：
    “在中国，反帝国主义的斗争，一定要采取深刻地人民的和鲜明地民族的性质，一定要一步加深一步，一直到同帝国主义作拚命的决斗，震撼帝国主义在全世界上的基础本身。”（注四）
    事情的经历就正是如此。
    当然，不可能设想，革命在这个曾经成为各帝国主义争夺焦点和在年代上有很长久的封建制度的大国，是能够轻易取得胜利的。不，这是不可能轻易取得胜利的。毛泽东同志在一九四九年八月间所写的一篇论文里曾经形容了这种取得胜利的过程：“斗争，失败，再斗争，再失败，积一百零九年的经验，积几百次大小斗争的经验，军事的和政治的，经济的和文化的，流血的和不流血的经验，方才获得今天这样的基本上的成功。”（注五）这就是说：中国革命的进行是极其残酷、复杂而曲折的。这样，就极大地锻炼了中国工人阶级和中国人民，极大地锻炼了中国工人阶级的政党——中国共产党。而这种丰富的革命经验，也就又变成了中国工人阶级和中国人民非常宝贵的财富；这种丰富的革命经验，也就不可免地丰富了马克思列宁主义的理论。
    中国这种丰富的革命经验，就是集中表现在毛泽东同志的著作上面，集中表现为毛泽东思想。
    列宁在一九一九年十一月间曾经对东方共产主义者指出：
    “在这里，在你们面前摆着一个任务，这个任务从前在全世界共产党员面前是没有提出过的，这个任务就是：依靠一般共产主义的理论与实践，你们在应用于欧洲各国所没有的独特条件时，须要善于把这个理论和实践应用于这样的条件，即农民是主要群众，所要解决的斗争任务不是反对资本，而是反对中世纪的残余。”
    “你们应当找出全世界先进无产者与往往生活在中世纪条件下的东方劳动的和被剥削的群众的这种联系之独特形式。”
    列宁下面又继续指出：
    “任务就在于唤醒劳动群众求取独立和组织的革命积极性，不论他们是处在那种水平上，就在于把较为先进的国家的共产党员所享用的真正共产主义学说译成每种人民的语言，就在于实现那些应当立刻实现的实际任务并且在总的斗争中与其他各国无产者打成一片。
    这就是你们在任何一册共产主义书本中都找不到解决然而在俄国已经开始的总的斗争中可以找到解决的一些任务。你们必须提出任务，并用独立的经验加以解决。”（注六）
    大家知道：列宁和斯大林，在他们一系列的著作中，业已在基本原则上，解决了列宁在这里所提出的任务，而斯大林在中国问题上并作了特出的理论贡献。
    中国共产党领袖毛泽东同志的任务是继续列宁斯大林的工作，不断地考察中国的经验，把一般共产主义的理论和实践跟中国革命的具体实践融会贯通起来，把先进国家的共产党员所用的真正共产主义学说译成中国人民的语言，根据中国的条件补充了它，转化为中国革命的理论与实践，激发起几万万人民和全世界反帝国主义的总斗争汇合起来，和苏维埃社会主义共和国联盟，和各国的工人阶级及先进的人们，和一切被压迫民族，联合起来，结果就在中国伟大的土地上埋葬了帝国主义及其走狗的统治。
  （三）中国革命是世界革命的一部分
    把被压迫民族解放运动看成是世界无产阶级社会主义革命的一部分，这是列宁斯大林的理论。
    根据列宁斯大林的理论，毛泽东同志从来不把中国革命当成孤立的问题去看待，而是从世界无产阶级革命的全局去看待它，从反帝国主义斗争的全局去看待它。
    这是因为我们所处的时代，是帝国主义和无产阶级革命的时代，是社会主义已在苏联首先胜利的时代，是马克思主义的新时代即列宁主义的时代。这是因为中国的革命首先就是反帝国主义的革命。
    一九二六年三月间，毛泽东同志在“中国社会各阶级的分析”文章中，为了批驳当时国民党的戴季陶主义，分析了世界分裂为两大营垒的局面：
    “……现在世界上的局面，是革命和反革命两大势力作最后斗争的局面。这两大势力竖起了两面大旗：一面是红色的革命的大旗，第三国际高举着，号召全世界一切被压迫阶级集合于其旗帜之下；一面是白色的反革命的大旗，国际联盟高举着，号召全世界一切反革命分子集合于其旗帜之下。那些中间阶级，必定很快地分化，或者向左跑入革命派，或者向右跑入反革命派，没有他们“独立”的余地。”
    毛泽东同志这里所说，很清楚的，是把十月社会主义革命以后的世界局面，分别为一个是在世界无产阶级社会主义革命这个总运动的领导之下的反帝国主义的营垒，而另一个则是为一切反革命势力所依附的帝国主义的营垒。当时代表资产阶级右翼的国民党戴季陶派，实际上是准备蒋介石反革命的喉舌，他们反对阶级斗争的学说，反对国民党联俄和联共，妄想“独立”在两大营垒的中间，实现所谓资产阶级一阶级统治的国家。毛泽东同志指出他们这种企图是完全要破产的。中间阶级的分化是不可避免的。民族资产阶级或者向左走，联俄联共，承认无产阶级的领导，和世界的反帝国主义的总斗争相汇合；或者向右走，反苏反共，反对无产阶级革命，成为帝国主义的走狗；除此而外，是没有“独立”的余地的。大家知道：当时的事实就是这样：民族资产阶级的右翼不久就随着蒋介石的反革命而跑到帝国主义方面去。
    在抗日战争年代，由于我们党的倡导，广泛的民族统一战线重新建立起来。但国民党顽固派又重新弹起什么资产阶级专政的滥调，在实际上乃是用以掩饰并坚持蒋介石所代表的大地主和官僚资产阶级的专政，国民党的“一党专政”；这类专政也即是毛泽东同志所指的半殖民地半封建的专政。另一方面，在我们党内则重新出现了一种企图使无产阶级变成大资产阶级尾巴的右倾机会主义。为了粉碎国民党顽固派的各种谬论和党内的右倾机会主义，使中国无产阶级，使中国广大的人民，使我们的党，在这个新的民族统一战线复杂局面中，不至迷失自己的方向，毛泽东同志于是写了一本重要的战斗著作，即“新民主主义论”。
    在这个战斗的新著作里面，毛泽东同志更具体地和极深刻地发展了上述列宁斯大林关于殖民地半殖民地革命的学说。毛泽东同志引述了斯大林的文章，并根据了中国革命长期再积累的经验，重新提出并详细论述了中国革命基本方向——也即中国革命基本路线的问题。
    毛泽东同志说明了：“第一次胜利的社会主义十月革命，改变了整个历史的方向，划分了整个世界历史的时代。”他接着写道：
    “在世界资本主义战线已在地球的一角（这一角占全世界六分之一土地）实行崩溃，而在其余的角上又已经充分显露其腐朽性的时代，在这些尚存的资本主义部分非更加依赖殖民地半殖民地便不能过活的时代，在社会主义国家已经建立并宣布它愿意为了扶助一切殖民地半殖民地的解放运动而斗争的时代，在各个资本主义国家的无产阶级一天一天从社会帝国主义的社会民主党之影响下面解放出来并宣布他们赞助殖民地半殖民地解放运动的时代，在这种时代，任何殖民地半殖民地国家，如果发生了反对帝国主义、即反对国际资产阶级、反对国际资本主义的革命，它就不再是属于旧的世界资产阶级民主主义革命的范畴，而属于新的范畴了，它就不再是旧的资产阶级与资本主义的世界革命的一部分，而是新的世界革命的一部分，而是无产阶级社会主义世界革命的一部分了。”
    这是马克思列宁主义关于殖民地半殖民地革命一个根本的估计，根本的分析。由这个分析，便能够很自然地对于中国革命的基本方向，引出一个极端明确的结论，这结论就是：中国革命是无产阶级社会主义世界革命的一部份。这个结论同时也就说明了下列各点：
    第一：“这种革命是彻底打击帝国主义的，因此它不为帝国主义所容许，而为帝国主义所反对。但是它却为社会主义所容许，而为社会主义的国家和社会主义的国际无产阶级所援助。”“这个世界上，所有帝国主义都是我们的敌人，中国要独立，决不能离开社会主义国家与国际无产阶级的援助。这就是说，不能离开苏联的援助，不能离开日本与英、美、法、德、意各国无产阶级在其本国进行反资本主义斗争的援助。”
    第二：“殖民地半殖民地的任何英雄好汉们，要就是站在帝国主义战线，变为世界反革命的一部分；要就是站在反帝国主义战线，变为世界革命的一部分。二者必居其一，其他的道路是没有的。”“社会主义的苏联与帝国主义之间的斗争一经进一步尖锐化，中国不站在这方面，就要站在那方面，这是必然的趋势。难道不可以不偏不倚吗？这是梦想。全世界都要卷进这两个战线中去，在今后的世界中，‘中立’只是骗人的名词。”
    第三：“现在的世界，是处在革命与战争的新时代，是资本主义决然死灭与社会主义决然兴盛的时代。在这种情形下，要在中国反帝反封建胜利之后，再建立资产阶级专政的资本主义社会，岂非是完全的梦呓？”“这是断然的，一定的，确实的，中国资产阶级顽固派如不觉悟，他们的事情是并不美妙的，他们将得一个自寻死路的前途。”
    第四：“共产主义的思想体系与社会制度，正以排山倒海之势，雷霆万钧之力，磅礴于全世界，而葆其美妙之青春。中国自有科学的共产主义以来，人们的眼界是提高了，中国革命也改变了面目，中国的民主革命，没有共产主义去指导是决不能成功的，更不必说革命的后一阶段了。……现在的世界，依靠共产主义做救星，现在的中国，也正是这样。”“谁要反共，谁就要准备变成齑粉。”
    上述种种论点，都是毛泽东同志在十年前这个“新民主主义论”的著作中所指出的。自此以后，毛泽东同志在许多著作中又继续发挥了上述的论点。世界的和中国的十年以来的事变，都把毛泽东同志上述的论点一一证实了。
    当然，这些论点的发挥也就粉碎了资产阶级的狭隘的反动的民族主义，并清除了小资产阶级的满足于落后的孤立小天地的民族偏见。
    运用马克思、恩格斯、列宁、斯大林的学说，特别是运用列宁、斯大林的学说，从帝国主义和无产阶级革命的时代这一个基本观点，来考察中国革命，分析中国革命，从而发展了这一个基本观点，指导中国革命朝着正确的方向前进，这是毛泽东思想胜利的道路。
  （四）无产阶级领导的人民大众的革命
    毛泽东同志根据十月社会主义革命所引起的世界历史的根本变化，以及中国近代无产阶级登上政治舞台所引起的中国历史的根本变化，指出了在这种变化之前的中国革命为旧民主主义的革命，即在资产阶级领导下的民主主义革命；在这种变化之后的中国革命为新民主主义的革命，即在无产阶级领导下的民主主义革命。
    毛泽东同志从党建立后的第一个革命时期内反对陈独秀的右倾机会主义起，不论在任何情况之下，一直坚持列宁斯大林关于无产阶级领导权的学说。在抗日战争初期，毛泽东同志和新出现的右倾机会主义作了不调和的斗争，经常特别强调要鉴戒一九二七年陈独秀机会主义放弃无产阶级领导权所造成革命失败的罪恶结果。毛泽东同志经常告诉中国共产党员要熟读列宁的“两个策略”这个伟大思想的著作。毛泽东同志把列宁这个著作，作为反对右倾机会主义的强有力的武器。
    关于中国革命的无产阶级领导权这个问题，是和中国民族资产阶级的软弱性相联系的。一九二六年斯大林“论中国革命的前途”的文章说到民族大资产阶级的软弱性的时候，就这样说过：“由此可以得出结论说：中国革命倡导者和领导者的作用，中国农民领袖的作用，必不可免地要落在中国无产阶级及其政党手中。”
    毛泽东同志说：“中国的事情非常明白，谁能领导人民推翻帝国主义与封建势力，谁就能取得人民的信仰，因为人民的死敌是帝国主义和封建势力，而特别是帝国主义的原故。……历史已经证明：中国资产阶级是不能尽此责任的，这个责任就不得不落在无产阶级的肩上了。”（注七）
    毛泽东同志指出：“中国革命的历史进程，必须分为两步，其第一步是民主主义革命，其第二步是社会主义革命。”中国革命的第一阶段，第一步，虽然按其社会性质，基本上还是资产阶级民主主义的革命，“然而这种革命，已经不是旧的、被资产阶级领导的、以建立资本主义的社会和资产阶级专政的国家为目的的革命，而是新的、被无产阶级领导的、以在第一阶段上建立新民主主义的社会和建立各个革命阶级联合专政的国家为目的的革命。”（注八）
    毛泽东同志把这个革命，规定为下列简单明确的公式：“新民主主义的革命，就是在无产阶级领导之下的人民大众反帝国主义反封建主义的革命。”有的地方，毛泽东同志又叫做“反对帝国主义反对封建势力的人民民主革命”。由于以蒋介石为首的四大家族在长期反革命的过程中，最后形成了官僚资本的垄断集团，于是这种革命性质也就加进了反官僚资本这一个新的东西。毛泽东同志把反官僚资本这个新东西加进到这个公式里面去，就成为这样的公式：“无产阶级领导的、人民大众的、反帝国主义、反封建主义和反官僚资本主义的革命。”毛泽东同志认为这就是中国革命第一阶段的总路线和总政策。
    在毛泽东同志提出的这个公式里面所说的人民大众，主要的就是指农民。这个革命是以工农联盟为基础、但包括一切反帝反封建反官僚资本的人们的革命。在毛泽东同志看来，中国无产阶级、农民、知识分子与其他小资产阶级，乃是决定国家命运的基本力量，而无产阶级乃是领导的力量。
    由这个革命所建立起来的革命的民主专政，当然也是这样的阶级基础。这个革命的民主专政，毛泽东同志叫做“在无产阶级领导下的各革命阶级联合专政”，又叫做“工人阶级领导的、以工农联盟为基础的人民民主专政”。
    无产阶级领导的问题，在毛泽东同志看来，这是解决中国革命一系列问题的中心问题，又是关系革命成败的中心问题。毛泽东同志在一九三七年五月间关于抗日民族统一战线的问题，曾经这样提出：“使无产阶级跟随资产阶级呢？还是使资产阶级跟随无产阶级呢？这个中国革命领导责任的问题，乃是革命成败的关键。”（注九）在一九四九年的“论人民民主专政”名文中，他又指出：“整个革命历史证明，没有工人阶级的领导，革命就要失败，有了工人阶级的领导，革命就胜利了。在帝国主义时代，任何国家的任何别的阶级，都不能领导任何真正的革命达到胜利。中国的小资产阶级和民族资产阶级曾经多次领导过革命，都失败了，就是明证。”
    同时，在毛泽东同志看来，农民的问题，又是解决无产阶级领导的中心问题。
    列宁在共产国际第二次代表大会上关于民族和殖民地问题的报告中提出：“谁要是以为无产阶级政党——假如它在这样的国度里面，一般地能够发生的话——不与农民成立一定的关系，不在事实上援助农民运动，就能够在这些落后的国度里面实行共产主义和共产主义的政策，那就是空想。”
    斯大林曾经几次指出：“民族问题实质上就是农民问题。”（注一○）
    毛泽东同志对于中国问题的看法，正是遵循了列宁斯大林这种看法。
    在资产阶级民主革命中，无产阶级和资产阶级、和一切其他党派的争论的主要分歧，便是农民的问题。毛泽东同志在“论联合政府”的著作上指出：“国民党反人民集团动员一切力量，向着中国共产党放出了一切恶毒的箭：明的和暗的，军事的和政治的，流血的和不流血的。两党的争论，就其社会性质说来，实质上是在农村关系的问题上。”
    领导农民革命乃是无产阶级领导权的根本标志。资产阶级不能成为资产阶级民主革命的领导者，基本上就是因为它不能领导农民革命、害怕农民革命和反对农民革命。毫无疑问：只有无产阶级的领导，才能把极其广大而又极其散漫的农民有效地组织起来，成为无穷无尽的战斗力量，才谈得上工农的联盟，并才谈得上在这个联盟的基础上团结一切可能的革命力量到自己方面来，也才谈得上中国革命和国际革命力量的团结一致。
