Title: Strengthening the Party's Political Work in Rural Areas - Commemorating the 30th Anniversary of the Communist Party of China
Author: Bo Yibo
Date: 1951-06-29
Page: 1

　　Strengthening the Party's Political Work in Rural Areas
    ——Commemorating the 30th Anniversary of the Communist Party of China
       Bo Yibo
    Under the correct leadership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the Communist Party of China's North China regional committees at all levels have always resolutely supported the liberation of Chinese peasants, supported the peasants' rent reduction and interest rate reduction, land reform, armed struggle, and the establishment of rural democratic power. This has enabled us to establish close ties with the peasants. Therefore, whether during the Anti-Japanese War, the Liberation War against the Kuomintang reactionaries, or the current period of economic construction, our Party has won the unanimous support of the peasants in the entire region. In 1949, the entire North China region was liberated. According to the instructions of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the North China Party put forward the方針 of restoring and developing agricultural production. After two or three years of effort, it has generally been restored to or approached the pre-war production level. This has not only improved the lives of the peasants, but also guaranteed the supply of grain to the cities, and increased the supply of raw materials and export goods to the cities, thereby further consolidating the worker-peasant alliance.
    Currently, the purchasing power of peasants in North China has increased as a result of selling their surplus grain and local and special products. They now not only demand the supply of sufficient daily necessities such as cloth, department store goods, and kerosene, but also demand the supply of more means of production such as liberation farm tools, insecticides, and fertilizers. This means that they demand the establishment of a new urban-rural exchange relationship that can meet their needs. In the past few years, the Party and the People's Government in North China have done a lot of useful work in this regard, but it still cannot keep up with the growing needs of the peasants and must continue to work hard.
    In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to develop state-owned commerce, private commerce, and cooperative commerce networks in a planned manner, and use commerce as a link to closely connect industrial production and agricultural production. Developing urban-rural exchanges under equal conditions is currently a central link in consolidating the worker-peasant alliance. Commerce has always been despised by some of our party members, but in order to develop production, consolidate the worker-peasant alliance, and ensure that the proportion of socialist and semi-socialist economic components in the entire national economy continues to increase, our party members must learn to do business.
    In order to achieve this goal, the state must start to develop some light industries that produce the daily necessities and means of production urgently needed by the peasants (of course, this does not deny the importance of heavy industry, but precisely to accumulate capital to prepare for the development of heavy industry). If the peasants do not get enough industrial products after selling their surplus grain and local and special products, it is difficult to satisfy them. However, considering China's industrial backwardness, it is necessary to carefully consider the use and development of handicrafts, since the products of machine industry cannot fully meet the needs of peasants within a certain period. According to surveys in Hebei, Pingyuan and other provinces, 80 percent of the daily necessities and means of production purchased by peasants from the market are handicraft products, and 20 percent are machine industry products. The number of handicrafts in our country is very large, and there are many people engaged in it. If they are used and developed in a planned manner, they can make up for the deficiency of machine industry to a certain extent.
    In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to widely develop the contract system for commodity exchange. Various order, credit sales, pre-purchase, and storage contracts should be signed with peasants through state-owned trading companies, cooperatives, and the People's Bank. Use the contract system to guarantee the state's appropriate prices for agricultural products - the cotton-grain price ratio, the tobacco-grain price ratio, the hemp-grain price ratio, etc., so that peasants can develop production in a planned and unreserved manner without worrying about price drops caused by overproduction. This is the policy that must be adopted to develop industrial raw material crops. At the same time, the contract system also stipulates the relationship between peasants and the state. They should guarantee the specifications and quantity of grain and industrial raw material crops, and deliver them to the state on time.
    In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to implement the state's agricultural loan policy to support agricultural production. Provide peasants with fertilizers and production tools, and help the development of supply and marketing cooperatives. That is to say, use state financial subsidies to develop agricultural production and develop supply and marketing cooperatives. We believe that the emergence of a new system is difficult without state financial assistance, and some money must be spent without being stingy.
    In order to achieve this goal, it is necessary to adhere to a fair and reasonable agricultural tax policy that encourages the development of agricultural production. This is what we have already taken and will continue to take.
    All of these must be done well by the people and the state. Consolidating the worker-peasant alliance must have a certain material foundation. If we had previously seriously supported the peasants in carrying out land reform, liberating the peasants from the feudal exploitation system, and thereby politically obtained the broad masses of peasants as our great allies; then in the future, we must seriously support the peasants in organizing to develop production, better solve the problem of urban-rural material exchange, and better meet the peasants' supply and marketing needs, so as to further consolidate the worker-peasant alliance economically. This is one aspect.
    But on the other hand, the development of commerce, the development of industry, and the development of agriculture, all of this must be premised on consolidating the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the worker-peasant alliance. The people's democratic dictatorship has opened up and continues to open up broad development paths for the people's productive forces; similarly, if commerce, industry, and agriculture are developed under the leadership of the unified state plan, it will in turn further consolidate the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the worker-peasant alliance. Therefore, whether in industrial production or agricultural production, or in commercial exchange, it is necessary to imbue it with patriotic content, and it must obey the unified state plan, so that our economic work can move towards a clear and great goal. Otherwise, we will lose a certain direction in the complex economic work. Politics is the concentrated expression of economics, and any tendency to separate from politics in production is not allowed. On this issue, the Chinese Communist Party organization in North China has also basically done a good job in leading the broad masses of peasants in North China. The peasants in North China have undergone the Anti-Japanese War, the Liberation War, and the land reform. Their political consciousness and class consciousness are very high. They believe that the leadership of the Communist Party is correct. Therefore, they have always followed the direction indicated by the Communist Party. However, the political enthusiasm shown by some peasants is inconsistent with their continuous economic improvement, mainly because some incorrect views still exist among some party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds. Although these incorrect views exist among a small number of people, and some of them have been initially corrected, it is still necessary to continue to oppose and refute them.（⑴⑵）
    "The world was won by the peasants, and the peasants should rule the world." Yes, the peasants are the main force in the great Chinese revolutionary movement, and the people's democratic dictatorship is an alliance of four revolutionary classes, and the peasant class also occupies an extremely important position in the regime. But if it is said that the great victory of the Chinese revolution has nothing to do with working class leadership, this is not correct. On the contrary, the great victory of the Chinese revolution was achieved under the leadership of the Chinese working class (through the Communist Party). Many party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds cannot understand this point. They believe that since our Party has been in the countryside for a long time, the army is composed of peasants in military uniforms with weapons, and most of the Party's cadres are from peasant backgrounds, while the working class has been in the cities for a long time and only came forward after liberation, why can it be said that the working class leads the peasants? They only recognize the leadership of the Communist Party, not the leadership of the working class. This is because they do not understand that the Communist Party is the vanguard of the working class, not anything else; they do not understand that China was once a semi-colonial and semi-feudal country, and the Chinese working class in the cities was subjected to serious persecution for a long time and could not freely carry out revolutionary activities, so it sent its vanguard to the countryside to organize its great peasant ally. Only by doing so could our Party represent the true intentions of the Chinese working class. It is precisely because of this that the great Chinese peasant war, under the leadership of the Chinese working class's party, the Communist Party, was different from all peasant wars in Chinese history, and finally came out completely as the victor. Therefore, we must first conduct systematic education for these comrades from peasant backgrounds, and then for the broad masses of peasants, to explain this issue clearly. The Chinese working class acts as the leader of the Chinese revolutionary movement, not arbitrarily decided or denied by anyone, because it is linked to the most advanced economic form, that is, linked to large-scale production; it has suffered triple oppression from imperialism, feudalism, and bureaucratic capitalism since its birth, and is the most revolutionary and thorough; it has been trained in collective labor in large factories, so it is the most organized and disciplined; when it began to step onto the revolutionary stage, it was under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party, so it became the most visionary and conscious class in China; it also has a natural connection with the broad masses of peasants (because the majority of its members are from bankrupt peasant families), which facilitates its formation of a close revolutionary alliance with the peasants. Therefore, it is determined that the working class is the leading class of the revolution. Only under the leadership of the working class can the peasants fully play their revolutionary role. Not recognizing this truth, no matter how subjectively you care for the peasants and care about their interests, the peasant liberation movement will ultimately fail. But we cannot therefore underestimate the important role of the peasants in the Chinese revolution. Peasants account for 80 percent of China's population. If the Chinese revolution is separated from the peasants, nothing will be accomplished. Many so-called democrats have turned into counter-revolutionaries because they do not understand this point and do not support the liberation of the peasants.
    "Get rich." After the land reform in the old liberated areas of North China, there was once a utopian agricultural socialist thought, erroneously simply thinking that poverty is glorious; erroneously thinking that since Japanese imperialism had been driven away and land reform had been implemented, then "revolution" would inevitably be "communism," and erroneously interpreting socialism and communism as "eating from the same pot," which seriously打击打击 the peasants' enthusiasm for production and affected the recovery and development of agricultural production. At that time, the slogan "get rich" played a certain role in overcoming utopian agricultural socialist ideas and stabilizing the peasants' production mood, and greatly developed agricultural production. But even at that time, this slogan had its one-sidedness. It only stated one side of the matter and lacked serious and correct political content, and the consequences were not good. It developed a tendency to bury oneself in production and construction without asking about politics; it fueled the petty-bourgeois selfish thoughts of peasants who disregarded national interests. Although it was later supplemented with the idea that production and getting rich is not speculation and getting rich, and labor and getting rich is not exploitation and getting rich, it always lacked clear political content and could not turn back the tendency to bury oneself in production and construction without asking about politics. Therefore, this slogan did not actually lead the peasants forward, which made the peasants lose the correct direction of production. Until this year, after the patriotic bumper harvest movement and the movements to resist US aggression and aid Korea and suppress counter-revolutionaries were launched, many wrong ideological problems in the countryside were further resolved, and production struggle, political struggle, personal interests, and national interests were combined again. It must be repeatedly explained to the peasants that it is not possible to "produce and get rich" freely at any time in history. For example, during the Japanese imperialist and Kuomintang reactionary rule, the peasants were subjected to cruel oppression and exploitation, and of course there was no way to talk about "producing and getting rich." Only in the era of the People's Government, because the land system has been reformed and various policies for developing production have been implemented, have the conditions for "producing and getting rich" been created. You can't simply tell the peasants "get rich"! It should be premised on supporting the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the worker-peasant alliance, producing more grain, producing more industrial raw materials, producing more export goods, accumulating capital, and leading the country to industrialization, and then turning back to improve agricultural production and improve the lives of the peasants. Only by defending the country can we get rich, that is, to implement "patriotic increase in production."
    "The theory of revolutionary success." It is true that the Chinese revolution has achieved victory on a national scale, and this victory is very great. It is the greatest victory in the world since the Russian October Revolution. But the problem is not whether to admit this victory or not. Victory is recognized by everyone; the problem is that when the Chinese revolution has achieved basic victory on a national scale, some of our party members from peasant backgrounds, especially those who serve as district and village cadres, have the idea of taking a break, and they lie down and do nothing. They believe that driving away Japanese imperialism, driving away Chiang Kai-shek, and implementing land reform are, for them, considered revolutionary success and everything is fine. Therefore, they quickly became political mediocrities and could no longer see what else could be done, indulging in "a basket of steamed buns, a pot of pickled cabbage, sitting on the kang, although hard, it is also happy." They turned a blind eye to great political movements such as suppressing counter-revolutionaries and resisting US aggression and aiding Korea. What's more, not only do they not continue to do revolutionary work, but they also "ask the Party for debts," wanting status and enjoyment. If they do not achieve their goals, they say that this is "killing the donkey after grinding the mill," and "forgetting the peasants after entering the city." It is not that they are leaving the revolution, but that the Party is sorry for them. Is the "theory of revolutionary success" correct? Can it be said that the day when the bourgeois democratic revolution achieves basic victory on a national scale is the time when the revolution is declared over? Please read Chairman Mao's instructions: "To seize national victory is only the first step in a long march of ten thousand miles... The Chinese revolution is great, but the road after the revolution is longer, and the work is greater and more arduous." It must be solemnly told to all comrades who are obsessed with the "theory of revolutionary success" that there are still many things we have to do, and the revolution is far from being completed. The remaining enemies are still waiting for us to wipe them out, and American imperialism is still at our national gate. They are still trying to restore and make a comeback every day, and the serious task of economic construction has only just begun. The final victory of the revolution must be ours, but we must still go through a very arduous and long journey, and we must do more arduous and greater work. Communists must see the prospects of the revolution at any time. After the revolution has achieved a strategic or tactical victory, they must quickly put forward new goals of struggle and continue to move forward. It is never allowed to be content with the status quo and seek temporary ease. This is a thought that obstructs fighting spirit and is depressed, and we must carry out a resolute struggle against it.
    "Gradually shake, weaken, and even negate private property within mutual aid teams to achieve agricultural collectivization." China must eventually achieve agricultural collectivization (that is, collective farms). Without agricultural collectivization, there will be no complete and consolidated socialism, and the peasants cannot be finally liberated. To achieve agricultural collectivization, it is also necessary to develop a strong industry based on state-owned enterprises. Without a strong state-owned industry, there can be no agricultural collectivization on a full scale. That is to say, the peasants must rely on the efforts and assistance of the working class to further liberate themselves. The so-called "gradually shake, weaken, and even negate private property within mutual aid teams to achieve agricultural collectivization," such a path of agricultural collectivization is a complete fantasy, because the current mutual aid teams are based on individual economy, and they cannot gradually develop into collective farms on this basis, and even less can they make agriculture collectivized on a full scale through this path. In addition, it is also wrong to gradually shake, weaken, and even negate private property within the current mutual aid teams. This will directly destroy the current mutual aid teams. This is a utopian agricultural socialist thought. After the land reform, the Party's basic policy in the countryside is to universally develop agricultural productive forces, produce more grain, produce more industrial raw materials, and produce more export goods, so as to ensure the supply to cities and improve the lives of peasants. "Organizing is the only way to change from poor to rich." We must vigorously develop mutual aid teams. But today's mutual aid teams are an organization based on private property, voluntary, and equal exchange, and are generally protected by private property rather than weakened and negated. It is a mistake to do otherwise. After the land reform, the vast majority of peasants (mainly poor peasants, farm laborers, and lower-middle peasants) were poor and needed mutual aid organizations. With the gradual recovery and development of production, mutual aid organizations are also needed to adopt higher technologies and larger farm tools, because these things cannot be done or are difficult to do by individual peasants. Chairman Mao once pointed out: "Cooperative organizations such as work exchange teams were a manifestation of the miserable lives of peasants in the old era. Now the work exchange teams in the liberated areas have undergone changes in form and content. They are a manifestation of the masses of peasants developing their own productive forces and striving for a prosperous life." The development of mutual aid teams in North China has proved that this argument is completely correct. At present, the relatively stable mutual aid teams that have been organized in North China account for only about 40 percent of the agricultural population in North China. Therefore, in places where they have already been organized, the content of production should be enriched, the democratic system should be consolidated, and it should be combined with the improvement of production technology to consolidate them; in places where they have not yet been organized, they should continue to organize and promote them under the principle of equal value and voluntariness. But the development of mutual aid teams does not oppose the "single-handed" work of individual peasants; rich peasants are also allowed to exist and develop. The development of mutual aid teams must oppose coercion and commandism. Only by doing a good job in the mutual aid teams and proving with facts that they can truly produce more grain, and that participating in mutual aid teams is faster than working alone to change from poor to rich or further develop production, can members be attracted to expand the mutual aid teams. It is permissible to accumulate some public property (such as shared larger farm tools and grain storage charity warehouses) on the basis of peasants' complete voluntariness and equal exchange, but such mutual aid teams are still based on individual economy and private property. It is also permissible to organize individual collective farms under the complete voluntariness of peasants. But this can only be individual at present, and agriculture can never be collectivized at present.
    Although the above-mentioned various erroneous views still only exist in certain individual places and among certain party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds, and some of them have been initially corrected, they do reflect the ideological problems that universally exist in the vast rural areas. So the serious problem is educating the peasants and educating party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds. Educating the masses of peasants must also first obtain the support of the broad masses of party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds. There are a total of 1.8 million party members in North China, and party members from peasant backgrounds account for 1.5 million. Therefore, we must first educate party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds to straighten out their thinking. Of course, it is a difficult task to conduct systematic Marxist-Leninist education among party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds to make them believe in the principles of socialism and communism. But in any case, they should and must be educated. There is no other way except to transform their thinking through education. The peasant economy is individual and scattered. The peasants accept the leadership of the working class only after proving through their personal experience that it is correct. Therefore, the process of revolutionizing the peasants is a long and patient process. It is not possible to adopt crude and simple methods towards the peasants. A great revolutionary truth and a specific and small revolutionary work must be educated repeatedly thousands of times before the trust of the peasants can be obtained. Party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds also largely reflect this characteristic of the masses of peasants. Therefore, in addition to explaining the necessary principles of Marxism-Leninism to them, according to our existing experience: we should also (1) guide them to visit modern large factories and industrial product exhibitions held by the leading organs, which is the best classroom for educating peasants and party members and cadres from peasant backgrounds to understand that the working class can act as the leader of the revolution. (2) Strengthen the organization of supply and marketing cooperatives. This cooperative is a collective economic organization of working people under the leadership of the working class's state power based on private property. It has been widely organized in North China, and the peasants are very welcome. We must continue to meet the demands of the broad masses of working people and promote and develop this cooperative. The obvious achievements shown by labor mutual aid teams and supply and marketing cooperatives can prove to the peasants that the collective economy is superior to the individual economy. In this way, the peasants can gradually understand and accept the principles of the socialist collective economy.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 加强党在农村中的政治工作——纪念中国共产党三十周年
薄一波
1951-06-29
第1版()
专栏：

　　加强党在农村中的政治工作
    ——纪念中国共产党三十周年
       薄一波
    中国共产党华北各级党委在中共中央的正确领导下，从来都是坚决赞助中国农民的解放的，赞助农民的减租减息、土地改革、武装斗争和建立农村民主政权的，这就使得我们和农民建立了密切的联系。因而，不管在抗日战争时期、反对国民党反动派的解放战争时期和现在的经济建设时期，我党均获得了全区农民的一致拥护和支持。一九四九年华北全境获得解放，华北党根据中共中央的指示，提出恢复和发展农业生产的方针，经过两三年来的努力，一般地已恢复到或已接近于战前的生产水平。这不仅农民生活得到了初步改善，而且也保证了对城市粮食的供给，和增加了对城市工业原料和外销物资的供应，从而进一步地巩固了工农联盟。
    目前华北农民由于把剩余粮食和土产品特产品推销出去的结果，购买力提高了。他们现在不仅要求供应足够的日用生活必需品如布匹、百货、煤油等；而且要求供应更多的生产资料如解放农具、杀虫药剂、肥料等。这就是说，他们要求建立能够满足他们所需要的新的城乡交换关系。几年来，华北的党和人民政府在这方面已经做了不少的有益的工作，但仍然赶不上农民日益增长的需要，还须继续努力。
    为了达到这一目的，就必须有计划地发展国营商业、私人商业和合作社商业网，以商业做纽带，把工业生产和农业生产紧密地连结起来。在等价条件下发展城乡交流，在目前是巩固工农联盟的一个中心环节。商业从来是为我们有些党员所轻视的，但为了发展生产，巩固工农联盟，并保障社会主义和半社会主义性质的经济成份在整个国民经济中的比重继续提高，我们党员就必须学会做生意。
    为了达到这一目的，国家就必须着手发展一些农民所迫切需要的生活以及生产资料的轻工业（当然，这并不否认重工业的重要性，亦正所以积累资本为重工业的发展做准备）。农民在把剩余粮食和土产品特产品推销出去之后，如果得不到足够的工业品，是难于满意的。但估计到中国工业落后，机器工业产品在一定时期内还不可能充分满足农民的需求，因而确实考虑利用和发展手工业是必要的。根据河北、平原等省调查，农民从市场上购买的生活和生产资料，其中百分之八十是手工业产品，百分之二十是机器工业产品。我国手工业数量很大，从业人员很多，如果有计划地加以利用和发展，在一定程度上是可以弥补机器工业的不足的。
    为了达到这一目的，就必须广泛地发展商品交换的合同制。经过国营贸易公司、合作社和人民银行，和农民订立各种定货、赊销、预购、存储等合同。用合同制保证国家对农产品的适当价格——棉粮比价、烟粮比价、麻粮比价等，如此农民就可以有计划地放手地去发展生产，而无因生产过多招致跌价的顾虑。这是发展工业原料作物所必需采取的政策。同时，经过合同制也规定了农民对国家的关系，他们应保证粮食和工业原料作物的规格、数量，并按期交给国家。
    为了达到这一目的，就必须贯彻国家扶植农业生产的农贷政策。贷给农民以肥料和生产工具等，并帮助供销合作社的发展，这就是说，用国家财政补助的办法发展农业生产和发展供销合作社。我们认为一个新的制度的产生，没有国家财政的帮助是很困难的，必须花一些钱，不能吝惜。
    为了达到这一目的，就必须坚持公平合理的鼓励农业生产发展的农业税收政策。这是我们已经采取并将继续采取的。
    所有这些，人民和国家都必须努力作好。巩固工农联盟必须有一定的物质作基础，假使我们过去曾因认真赞助农民实行土地改革，使农民从封建剥削制度下解放出来，从而就在政治上获得了广大农民群众作为自己的伟大同盟军；那么今后就必须认真赞助农民组织起来发展生产，更好地解决城乡物资交流，和更好地满足农民供销需要的问题，借以在经济上更进一步地巩固工农联盟。这是一方面。
    但另一方面，发展商业，发展工业，发展农业，所有这一切，又必须是以巩固以工人阶级领导的以工农联盟为基础的人民民主专政为前提。人民民主专政为人民的生产力开辟了并继续开辟着广阔发展的道路；同样，如果在国家统一计划的领导之下发展了商业，发展了工业，发展了农业，返回来也就更加巩固了以工人阶级领导的以工农联盟为基础的人民民主专政。因此，不管在工业生产中或农业生产中，也不管在商业交换中，都必须贯注以爱国主义的内容，都必须服从统一的国家计划，才能使我们的经济工作朝着一个明显伟大的目标前进。否则，就要使我们在复杂的经济工作中失去一定的方向。政治是经济的集中表现，在生产中一切脱离政治的倾向，都是不允许的。在这个问题上，在华北的中国共产党组织领导华北广大农民群众基本上也是做的好的。华北农民经过了抗日战争、解放战争和土地改革，政治觉悟程度和阶级觉悟程度是很高的，他们相信共产党的领导是正确的，因此，他们始终是跟着共产党所指示的方向走的。但在某些农民中表现出政治情绪不饱满与其经济生活不断上升极不相称，其中主要的原因是和某些农民出身的党员和干部中还存在着一些不正确的观点分不开的。这些不正确的观点，虽然是在少数人中间存在着，其中有些并且已经获得初步纠正，但还有必要继续加以反对和驳斥。（⑴⑵）
    “天下是农民打下的，农民要坐天下”。是的，农民在伟大的中国革命运动中是主要的力量，人民民主专政是四个革命阶级的联盟，农民阶级在政权中也占着极重要的地位。但如果因此就说中国革命的伟大胜利与工人阶级领导无关，则是不对的。相反，中国革命的伟大胜利是在中国工人阶级（通过共产党）领导下获致的。有许多农民出身的党员和干部对这一点想不通。他们认为既然我们党长期处在农村中，军队又是穿起军服拿起武器的农民，党的大多数干部又是农民出身的，而工人阶级则是长期处在城市里头，只是解放以后才站出来，为什么能说是工人阶级领导农民呢？他们只承认共产党领导，不承认工人阶级领导。这是由于他们不了解共产党是工人阶级的先锋队，而不是其他别的东西；不了解中国曾经是一个半殖民地半封建的国家，中国工人阶级在城市中曾是长期受着严重的迫害，无法自由进行革命活动，乃派遣自己的先锋队到农村去组织自己的伟大的农民同盟军。也只有这样做了，我们党才代表了中国工人阶级的真正意向。正因为这样，伟大的中国农民战争，才能在中国工人阶级的政党共产党领导下，而与中国历史上一切农民战争不同，最后完全以胜利者的资格走出来。因此，我们必须首先向这些农民出身的同志们随后向广大农民群众进行系统的教育，把这个问题解释清楚。中国工人阶级充当中国革命运动的领导者，并不是任意由谁来决定或者否认的，是由于它与最先进的经济形式联系着即与大生产联系着；它出生后就受着帝国主义、封建主义和官僚资本主义的三重压迫，最富于革命的彻底性；它是在大工厂的集体劳动中锻炼出来的，因而它又最富于组织性和纪律性；当它开始走上革命舞台的时候，就是在中国共产党的领导下，因而就成为中国最有远见最有觉悟的阶级；它又同广大农民有一种天然的联系（由于刚从农民破产出身的成份占大多数），便利于它同农民结成亲密的革命联盟。因此，就决定了工人阶级是革命的领导阶级。农民只有在工人阶级领导下，才能充分发挥其革命作用。不承认这一条真理，不管你主观上是如何爱护农民如何关心农民利益，而农民解放运动终归是要失败的。但又不能因此而低估了农民在中国革命中的重要作用，农民占中国人口的百分之八十，中国革命如果离开了农民，将一事无成。许多所谓民主主义者，就是因为不了解这一条，不赞助农民的解放，而最后变成反革命者。
    “发家致富”。华北老解放区在土地改革以后，曾经一度发生过空想的农业社会主义思想，错误地单纯地认为穷就是光荣的；错误地认为既已打走了日本帝国主义和实行了土地改革，那么再“革命”就必然是“共产”了，并错误地把社会主义和共产主义解释为“吃大锅饭”，这就严重地打击了农民的生产积极性，影响了农业生产的恢复和发展。当时提出“发家致富”这一口号，在克服空想的农业社会主义思想和稳定农民生产情绪上曾经起了一定作用，大大发展了农业生产。但这一口号即便在当时看，也有其片面性，它只不过道出事情的一面，缺乏严肃而正确的政治内容，其后果是不妙的。它发育了埋头生产建设不问政治的倾向；它助长了农民小资产阶级的不顾国家利益的自私思想。虽然后来又补充地提出生产发家不是投机发家，劳动致富不是剥削致富，但总是缺乏明确的政治内容的，没有也不可能把埋头生产建设不问政治的倾向扭转回来。因而，这一口号实际不是把农民引向前进，这就使农民失掉了正确的生产方向。直至今年提出爱国主义丰产运动，以及抗美援朝和镇压反革命运动开展以后，农村中许多错误的思想问题，才获得进一步的解决，才又把生产斗争和政治斗争、个人利益和国家利益结合起来。必须反复地向农民说明，在历史上并不是任何时候都可能自由自在的“生产致富”，比如在日本帝国主义和国民党反动统治时代，农民受着残酷的压迫和剥削，当然无从谈起“生产致富”，仅仅在人民政府时代，因为土地制度改革了，发展生产的各项政策实施了，才创造了“生产致富”的条件。不能简单地告诉农民“发财吧”！应该是以拥护工人阶级领导的以工农联盟为基础的人民民主专政的国家为前提，多打粮食，多生产工业原料，多生产外销物资，积累资本，使国家走向工业化，然后反转过来再提高农业生产，再改善农民生活。只有卫国才能发家，这就是说要实行“爱国增产”。
    “革命成功论”。不错，中国革命在全国范围内已经取得了胜利，而且这个胜利是非常伟大的，是俄国十月革命以后世界上最伟大的一次胜利。但问题不在于承认不承认这一胜利，胜利这是大家所公认的；问题是在于当着中国革命已经在全国范围内取得基本胜利的时候，我们有些农民出身的党员特别担任区村干部的党员有歇一歇的思想，他们躺倒不干了。他们认为打走了日本帝国主义、打走了蒋介石并实行了土地改革，对他们说来，已经算是革命成功、万事大吉了。因此，他们很快地变成了政治上的庸人，再也看不见还有什么事情可做了，沉醉于“饽饽一箩，酸菜一窝，炕头一坐，虽然辛苦，倒也快活”。对于镇压反革命和抗美援朝这样伟大的政治运动，他们不闻不问了。尤有甚者，不但不继续做革命工作，而且向党“讨债”，要地位，要享受，如果达不到他们的目的，就说这是“卸了磨子杀了驴”，“进了城市忘了农民”，不是他们离开革命，而是党对不起他们。“革命成功论”是否正确呢？能不能说资产阶级民主主义的革命在全国范围内取得基本胜利之日，就是革命宣告完结之时呢？请读一下毛主席的指示：“夺取全国胜利，只是万里长征走完了第一步。…中国革命是伟大的，但是革命以后的路程更长，工作更伟大、更艰苦”。必须正告所有迷恋于“革命成功论”的同志们知道：我们要做的事情还很多，现在革命还远远地没有完成，残余的敌人尚待我们扫清，美帝国主义还在我们的国门口，他们还天天企图复辟，卷土重来，严重的经济建设任务更才在开始。革命的最后胜利一定是我们的，但还必须经历很艰苦很长的路程，还须做更艰苦更伟大的工作。共产党人在任何时期都必须看到革命的远景，在革命取得一个战略或一个战役的胜利后，必须迅速地提出新的奋斗目标，继续前进，绝不允许安于现状，苟且偷安，这是一种阻塞斗志萎靡不振的思想，必须与之进行坚决的斗争。
    “在互助组内逐渐动摇、削弱直至否定私有财产，来达到农业集体化”。中国将来一定要达到农业集体化（即集体农场），如果没有农业集体化，就不会有全部的巩固的社会主义，就不能最后地解放农民。而要达到农业集体化，还必须发展以国有企业为基础的强大的工业，没有强大的国有化的工业，就不能有全体规模的农业集体化。这就是说，农民必须倚靠工人阶级的努力和援助，才能使自己得到进一步的解放。所谓“在互助组内逐渐动摇、削弱直至否定私有财产，来达到农业集体化”，这样的农业集体化道路，是一种完全的空想，因为目前的互助组是以个体经济为基础的，它不能在这样的基础上逐渐发展到集体农场，更不能经由这样的道路在全体规模上使农业集体化。此外，在目前的互助组内逐渐动摇、削弱直至否定私有财产，也是错误的。这要直接破坏目前的互助组。这是一种空想的农业社会主义思想。土地改革以后，党在农村中的基本政策是普遍发展农业生产力，多打粮食，多生产工业原料，多生产外销物资，从而保证对城市的供应和改善农民生活。“组织起来是由穷变富的必由之路”，必须用大力发展互助组。但今天的互助组是建立在私有财产基础上的自愿和等价交换的一种组织，一般地是保护私有财产而不是削弱和否定它，而如果这样做了就要犯错误。刚刚土地改革之后，绝大多数农民（主要是贫农、雇农和下中农）是穷困的，需要互助组织。在生产逐渐恢复和发展的情况下，由于要采用较高的技术和较大的农具等，也需要互助组织，因为这些事是个体农民所办不到或难于办到的。毛主席曾经指出：“变工队一类的合作组织，在旧时代是农民悲惨生活的表现。现在解放区的变工队，形式与内容都起了变化，它是农民群众为着发展自己的生产力，争取富裕生活的表现”。在华北互助组的发展过程中，证明这一论点是完全正确的。目前华北已经组织起来的比较稳固的互助组，只不过占华北农业人口的百分之四十左右，因此，已经组织起来的地方，应充实生产内容巩固民主制度并与改善生产技术相结合加以巩固；还没有组织起来的地方，应在等价自愿的原则下继续组织和推广。但发展互助组并不反对个体农民的“单干”；对富农也允许其存在和发展。发展互助组必须反对强迫命令，只有依靠把互助组内的工作做好，真正能够多打粮食，用事实证明要由穷变富或进一步地发展生产，参加互助组比单干要来得快，来吸引组员来扩大互助组。在农民完全自愿而且是等价交换的基础上，积累一些公共财产（如共有较大农具和积谷义仓等）是可以的，但这种互助组仍然是建立在个体经济和私有财产基础上的。又在农民完全自愿的条件下组织个别的集体农场也是可以的。但这在目前只能是个别的，决不能在目前使农业集体化。
    上述各种错误观点，现在虽然还只存在于某些个别地方和某些农民出身的党员和干部中间，并且有些已经获得初步纠正，但它确实反映出广大农村中间普遍存在的思想问题。所以严重的问题是教育农民和教育农民出身的党员和干部。教育农民群众，也必须首先获得广大农民出身的党员和干部的赞助。华北共有一百八十万党员，农民出身的党员即占一百五十万，因此必须首先教育农民出身的党员和干部，使他们的思想端正起来。当然在农民出身的党员和干部中间进行系统的马克思列宁主义的教育，使他们相信社会主义和共产主义的原则，是一件困难事情。但无论如何应当而且必需教育他们，除用教育改造他们的思想之外，别无他法。农民经济是个体的分散的，农民接受工人阶级的领导，是要通过其亲身经验而证明是正确以后才接受的，因此，使农民革命化的过程，是一个长时间的和耐心的工作过程。对农民采取粗暴的和简单的办法是不行的，一个革命的大道理，一件具体的细小的革命工作，都必须经过千百次地反复地教育，才能取得农民的信任。而农民出身的党员和干部也大体反映了农民群众这种特征，因此，除开应向他们讲解马克思列宁主义的必要的原则以外，根据我们已有的经验：还应该（一）引导他们多多参观近代化的大工厂和由领导机关举办的工业生产品展览会，这是教育农民和农民出身的党员和干部了解工人阶级能够充当革命的领导者的最好课堂。（二）要加强供销合作社的组织。这种合作社，是在私有财产基础上的在工人阶级领导的国家政权管理下的劳动人民群众的集体经济组织。在华北已经广泛地组织起来了，农民十分欢迎。必须继续满足广大劳动人民的要求，推广和发展这种合作社。经过劳动互助组和供销合作社所表现出来的显然的成绩，可以向农民证明：集体经济是优于个体经济的。这样就能使农民逐步地了解和接受社会主义的集体经济的原则。
