Title: Tool Reform
Author: Nóngyèbù Gōngjù Gǎigé Bàngōngshì
Date: 1959-05-09
Page: 7

　　Tool Reform
　　Agricultural Ministry Tool Reform Office
　　Production tools are the main symbol of the development of productive forces, and tool reform is a fundamental measure for developing production. The implementation of each of the eight-character constitution for agricultural production increase cannot be separated from tool reform. Not only that, but even the tools for making tools, if not reformed, cannot guarantee the rapid manufacture of new tools. In 1958, due to the increase in production targets, the innovation of agricultural technology measures, the amount of labor required greatly increased. If old-fashioned tools are still used for production, the requirements of the Great Leap Forward cannot be met. Therefore, tool reform must be carried out.

　　The tool reform movement in 1958 achieved brilliant success
　　The tool reform movement in 1958 opened the prelude to China's technological revolution and achieved brilliant results. More than 10,000 kinds of new tools were reformed and created nationwide, and more than 350 million pieces were promoted; more than 20 million sets of ball bearings were manufactured, and more than 44 million pieces of various rotating tools were installed. The promotion and use of these new tools not only greatly boosted morale, but also powerfully promoted the Great Leap Forward in agricultural production.

　　Overcame the difficulty of labor shortage
　　The tool reform in 1958 solved about half of the labor shortage. Many places improved work efficiency and saved labor due to tool reform. The rope traction machine manufactured in Taixing County, Jiangsu Province, is operated by four to five people, with a plowing depth of one foot to one foot and five inches. Each machine can generally plow two to two and a half mu per day, and even more can plow more than four mu. The work efficiency is five to seven times higher than using animal power to pull a plow. The county has 15,000 such traction machines; deep plowing of 1.38 million mu of land, accounting for 72.5% of the total cultivated land area, effectively solved the difficulty of labor shortage in deep plowing. The animal-powered rope traction machine successfully trial-produced by the Lansuo People's Commune in Shuangcheng County, Heilongjiang Province, uses two horses as power, and the plowing efficiency is equal to the plowing efficiency of using eight horses to directly pull a plow. A large number of improved tools were promoted in Anhui Province, and labor efficiency was greatly improved. In the water conservancy construction alone, 2.58 billion workdays were saved. In the spring of 1958, the Hengyang area of Hunan Province, with the Great Leap Forward in agricultural production, brought a new contradiction. On the one hand, the leap forward plan for agricultural production required a large amount of labor, and on the other hand, the existing labor and backward tools could not meet this requirement. Based on this situation, the prefectural committee put forward measures to vigorously promote tool reform. More than 510 kinds of tools were created and imitated in the area, and more than 370 kinds were promoted, with more than 4.12 million pieces. These tools generally improved work efficiency by one or two times, and some even dozens of times, greatly reducing labor intensity, and basically solved the difficulty of labor shortage. According to statistics in October last year, the labor deficit in the area was more than 2.13 million, and tool reform alone solved more than 1.89 million, accounting for 88.7% of the labor deficit.

　　Ensured the implementation of new agricultural technologies
　　Through tool reform, the implementation of various new agricultural production increase technologies was guaranteed. For example, in order to meet the requirements of deep plowing, more than 16 million pieces of deep plows were modified and promoted nationwide, and the plowing depth generally reached about one foot. In order to meet the requirements of large-scale fertilizer accumulation and application, more than 63 million pieces of fertilizer accumulation, application, and transportation tools were modified and promoted nationwide. In order to meet water conservancy requirements, more than 37 million pieces of water conservancy tools were modified and promoted. In order to meet the requirements of seed selection, more than 300,000 pieces of seed selection tools were modified and promoted. In order to meet the requirements of close planting, more than 4.8 million pieces of seeders and close planting drills were modified and promoted, and more than 1.8 million pieces of harvesting tools. In order to meet the requirements of plant protection, more than 1.2 million pieces of spraying and dusting tools were modified and promoted. In order to meet the requirements of field management, more than 37 million pieces of cultivating and weeding tools were modified and promoted. Especially in the technological innovations of deep plowing and close planting, the original structure and performance of耕地（gēngdì) and播种(bōzhòng) tools were greatly changed, and the plowing depth was generally deepened from about three inches to about one foot. Not only did the original old-fashioned plows fail to meet this requirement, but even the double-wheel double-share plows and double-wheel single-share plows in the new agricultural implements failed to meet this requirement. Therefore, deep plows improved from old-fashioned plows, deep plows modified from double-wheel double-share plows and double-wheel single-share plows, and winch rope traction deep plows, electric and mechanical rope traction deep plows, and mechanical traction integrated deep plows were created. Wheat sowing was changed from the original narrow width to narrow row wide width, which was also impossible with the original sowing machinery. Therefore, close planting drills improved from old-fashioned drills and new types of seeders modified from new-style animal-powered seeders appeared.

　　Improved labor productivity
　　Tool reform ensured the completion of various production increase measures, increased output, and improved labor productivity. Changge County, Henan Province, created and improved more than 630,000 pieces of deep plowing, fertilizer accumulation, fertilization, cultivating, sowing, and other tools, all of which improved work efficiency and saved about 60 million workdays compared to old-fashioned tools. Tool reform not only ensured the Great Leap Forward in agricultural production, but also mobilized more than 60,000 male and female full laborers to support urban industry and steel production, and extracted 20,000 laborers to support the construction of the Lushan Reservoir.

　　After the deep plowing tool reform in Hunan Province, work efficiency was increased by about ten times. Before the reform, using old tools to dig the ground, two to three fen were dug every day, and after the reform, using new tools to plow the land, three to three and a half mu were plowed every day. After the transportation tools were mechanized, work efficiency was increased by four to five times. Before the reform, people carried 80 jin each time, and after the reform, carts carried 400 jin each time. Using cableway transportation is dozens of times more efficient than carrying by people. After the harvesting tool reform, work efficiency was increased by four to five times. Before the reform, using sickles to cut, each person cut one to two mu per day, and using a fast harvesting machine, each person cut five to seven mu per day. After the water conservancy construction tool reform, earthwork increased from two to five cubic meters to ten cubic meters, which is two to five times higher than using old tools. After the agricultural and sideline product processing tool reform, work efficiency was increased by 19 times. For sweet potato slicing, manual slicing was 400 jin per day, and slicing machine slicing was 8,000 jin per day. In the summer harvest and summer planting last year in Fuyang Prefecture, Anhui Province, the labor days that each laborer should bear increased from 22 previously to 66. Due to the successful manufacture of ball bearings and the large-scale promotion of improved tools installed with ball bearings, labor productivity was increased by more than two times, and the summer harvest and summer planting tasks were completed, with each laborer only using 20 workdays.

　　In the Great Leap Forward in agricultural production, many facts have proved that the higher the yield per unit area, the less labor used per unit product, and the more output per workday. This is because more work was done in unit time to meet the requirements of new technologies. All of this is the result of extensively carrying out mass tool reform movements; using levers, cranks, ball bearings, pulleys, inertia, and other devices to reduce labor intensity; using gears, pulleys, pulley systems, and other devices to speed up operation; and using water power, wind power, gas power (biogas, natural gas), fire power, and electric power to replace human power.

　　Tool reform created a good start for China's agricultural mechanization and electrification
　　Tool reform is the basis of mechanization and electrification. Through tool reform, semi-mechanization, mechanization, and electrification can be realized to transform China's agriculture technically, quickly, well, and economically. It is one of the fundamental measures to ensure the Great Leap Forward in agricultural production, and it is by no means an insignificant measure as some people think. Judging from the leap forward speed of China's current steel production, the implementation of large-scale agricultural mechanization and electrification will come soon. However, before steel production reaches a certain level, it is necessary to vigorously promote tool reform, vigorously promote natural power, and realize agricultural semi-mechanization. Then gradually realize agricultural mechanization and electrification. This is determined by China's specific conditions. Those who think that tool reform cannot solve much problem and wait for mechanization are wrong in their views and practices. China's agricultural machinery must adapt to the needs of different regions, different natural conditions, and different crops in China, and meet the requirements of agricultural production leap forward and the "eight-character constitution." We must learn from the research and creation experience of foreign agricultural machinery, which is certain. But we cannot rely entirely on introducing foreign agricultural machinery or simply copying other people's drawings. In terms of the selection of agricultural machinery, China's plains and mountains are different; paddy fields and dry lands are different; this crop and that crop are different; for the same crop, this operation and that operation are different; for the same crop, the same operation, this region and that region are different; for the same crop, the same operation, the same region, this season and that season are also different. Moreover, in the Great Leap Forward in agricultural production, farmers in various places have created unprecedented high yields for various crops, and also created a set of brand-new technical measures for deep plowing, fertilization, irrigation, seed selection, close planting, plant protection, and field management. All of this puts forward a series of new problems for agricultural tool reform work. Therefore, we must study and create agricultural machinery suitable for China's specific conditions according to different conditions.

　　China's tool reform movement is not only an urgent need for current agricultural production, but also creates varieties and models of agricultural machinery suitable for different regions for agricultural mechanization while reforming and improving indigenous old-fashioned agricultural implements. This lays a good foundation for the selection and finalization of agricultural mechanization to come. In the tool reform movement, the thousands of diverse tools created and improved in various places are actually a treasure trove and source of machinery model selection for China's agricultural machinery. Among the agricultural implements that have been reformed, there are many good agricultural implements that meet the requirements of the eight-character constitution that did not exist in the past. Such as electric and mechanical rope traction machines created for the purpose of deep plowing; mechanical traction integrated deep plows, various winch deep plows, various animal-powered deep plows; fertilizer accumulation, fertilizer production, fertilization tools, and nutrient pot manufacturing machines created for large-scale fertilization; internal combustion water pumps and water turbine pumps created for timely irrigation; various transplanters created for accelerating rice transplanting; corn seeders created for corn close planting, etc., all provide new models for agricultural mechanization. In particular, the large-scale promotion of rope traction machines can comprehensively utilize various energy sources such as water, wind, fire, gas, machine, and electricity as power, and can be comprehensively utilized for various operations such as plowing, transplanting, processing, and water conservancy construction, providing a shortcut for realizing agricultural mechanization and electrification. In the future, in the process of agricultural mechanization, taking the simultaneous and parallel approach of tractors and rope traction machines will accelerate the realization of China's agricultural mechanization and electrification.

　　In tool reform, various power energy sources such as water, wind, biogas, tide, machine, and electricity were also initially utilized. Small hydropower stations and hydroelectric power stations in Jinghai, Hebei, Yongchun, Fujian, etc., wind turbines and windmills in Qianjiang, Hubei, Jiaxing, Zhejiang, etc., the use of natural gas and sea tide power generation in Shanghai and other places; the widespread use of biogas in Fuyang, Anhui, Weixian, Hebei, Heshan, Guangdong, etc., all prepared for future agricultural mechanization and electrification.

　　With reformed tools and the initial utilization of natural power, the manufacture and use of agricultural implements can gradually change from wood to iron, from small to large, from indigenous to foreign, from low-level to high-level, from human and animal power to mechanical and electric power.

　　Fully mobilize the masses, closely combine with production
　　The experience of 1958 proves that tool reform must adopt the method of the mass line, closely combine with production, and give full play to the intelligence, manpower, and material resources of the broad masses. The broad masses of peasants, workers, handicraftsmen, and rural grass-roots cadres are the main force of tool reform. In many areas, the entire people were involved in the tool reform movement. The benefit of doing this is that materials can be obtained locally, and in a very short period of time, tools suitable for the current urgent needs of production can be created, and can be widely promoted to immediately play a role in saving labor and effort in production. In the rope traction machine promotion movement in Yangzhou Prefecture, Jiangsu Province, bamboo rakes, cattails, rice straw, and other rope substitutes were created; horizontal winches were made using waterwheels, overcoming the difficulty of insufficient materials. In Wengjiang Township, Pingjiang County, Hunan Province, through a mass debate, right-leaning conservative ideas were criticized. Within a few days, the entire township contributed more than 4,000 ideas. The township and commune established special management agencies and adopted the method of combining cadres, the masses, technicians, and workers to establish agricultural implement factories. Within half a month, 15 new tools were created and promoted. Hengyang Prefecture, Hunan Province, organized roving performance teams to promote fast harvesting machines. Through the competition of new and old agricultural implements, the use of technology was taught. In seven days, more than 60,000 pieces were promoted in six counties including Lingling. The Ministry of Agriculture organized the fast harvesting machine experts of the prefecture to make a roving performance to Guangdong, Guangxi, Zhejiang, Anhui, and other provinces and regions, and more than 1 million pieces of this agricultural implement were promoted in a dozen days.

　　Tool reform promoted the development of community-run industries, and also established bases and professional teams for tool reform. In 1958, counties and communes implemented the centralized return of iron and woodworking craftsmen to the team, professional division of labor, and the combination of small factories and large factories, iron and wood factories, and established many agricultural implement manufacturing and repair factories. A total of 47,963 agricultural implement manufacturing factories and 43,462 agricultural implement repair factories were built nationwide. There were more than 1.86 million employees, with 79,325 sets of indigenous and foreign machine tools dedicated to them. Lezhi County, Sichuan Province, launched the "35" movement, that is, adopted the method of taking indigenous methods as the main method and combining indigenous and foreign methods, so that each commune was equipped with five kinds of machine tools such as lathes, drills, milling machines, punches, and planers, and each production team had five kinds of tools such as taps, dies, monkey wrenches, steel files, and bench drills; utilized five kinds of power such as water, fire, wind, gas, and animal power to equip county and commune machinery industries self-reliantly, and established an agricultural implement repair and manufacturing network for districts, communes, and teams. This is the base for further development of tool reform. Therefore, the mass movement of vigorously promoting tool reform must be combined with strengthening basic construction and establishing professional teams.

　　Emancipate the mind, break superstitions, create new agricultural implements that meet China's needs
　　In the tool reform movement, we must emancipate the mind, break superstitions, break some mysterious views and dogmatism on agricultural mechanization, and carry forward the communist style of the working people who dare to think, dare to speak, and dare to create. Before the tool reform movement, it was quite common to only believe in foreign methods and not believe in one's own thinking. After the tool reform, a large number of living Lubans and local experts appeared, improving tens of thousands of kinds of agricultural implements. More than 60% of the more than 4,000 agricultural implements exhibited at the National Agricultural Implement Exhibition were created by workers and peasants. More than 950 of them have been made into loose-leaf drawings and recommended to various places. At the technical revolution on-site meeting in Hebei Province, among the 298 inventions, 70% of the creators were workers (including handicraft workers), 24% were peasants, and 6% were cadres and teachers. From the perspective of education level, illiterates accounted for 12%, primary school education accounted for 82%, secondary school education accounted for 5%, and university education accounted for only 1%.

　　Ball bearings are the soul of all machines. During the tool reform movement centered on ball bearings widely carried out in June and July 1958, there were more than 400,000 units in counties and communes across the country that used indigenous methods to produce ball bearings. In many areas, ball bearingization was achieved in a short period of time.

　　Rice transplanters are machines that do not yet exist in the world. Some mechanical experts believe that transplanting cannot be mechanized, and mechanization cannot solve the problem of transplanting. However, after research and creation by the broad masses of peasants, more than 900 kinds of transplanters were created. Five or six kinds have been basically finalized and widely promoted. What the ancients and foreigners could not do, our workers and peasants can now do. The technical personnel of some scientific research institutions also creatively raised rope traction machines, internal combustion water pumps, etc. to a new level in the movement by contacting the masses and combining with production, breaking away from book dogmas.

　　Experience proves that the creation and invention of science and technology and tools must first start with indigenous methods, combine indigenous and foreign methods, combine with production, do what is needed, reform what is needed, invent, appraise, promote, improve, popularize, and improve simultaneously. Reform and innovation go hand in hand, quality and quantity are equally important. We must pay attention to both the reform of tools and the excavation and utilization of various power energy sources to achieve continuous reform and comprehensive reform. Establish and improve scientific experiment and appraisal institutions. Unify the organization and use of scientific forces. Vigorously grasp the work of experimental research and model selection and finalization. Experimental research must implement the policy of combining research, teaching, and production. Model selection must implement the route of evaluation, improvement, and creation, must meet the requirements of the agricultural eight-character constitution, must be efficient, low-cost, simple to manufacture, durable, and must be appraised by the central, provincial, and county levels. The tools that have been reformed should be appraised item by item to select the model. The tools that have a very good effect should be mass-produced and promoted for use immediately. The tools that have little effect or have not yet been reformed should be continued to be studied and improved. The tools that are urgently needed for production but are not currently available should be actively studied and created in a short period of time.

　　Train cadres, teachers, and operators of various tools
　　Tool reform must not only widely mobilize the masses and carry out comprehensive reform, but also train a large number of cadres, teachers, and operators of various tools. It is necessary to set up a mechanization college in each of several cooperation zones such as Northwest, Southwest, Central China, and North China, and set up short-term cadre training classes in agricultural colleges and schools that currently have agricultural machinery departments. Vigorously train cadres above the county level, select technical personnel who have graduated from agricultural machinery colleges and have several years of work experience, and send them to mechanization colleges for further study to train them into mechanization teachers and researchers. We must train a large number of operators of various tools. Technical training for improved agricultural implements and new-style agricultural implements should be concentrated before a certain agricultural season to train teachers, and then train sufficient operators in batches and batches to teach the use of technology.

　　Tool reform is only the beginning of the agricultural technological revolution. From tool reform to semi-mechanization and mechanization and electrification, we must constantly improve and constantly improve. Comrade Liu Shaoqi said: "The technical innovation movement, like a car, has already started, and will never stop, not stopping for a day, not stopping for ten thousand years." This is the best portrayal of the historical fact that China's tool reform is constantly developing and constantly advancing.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 工具改革
农业部工具改革办公室
1959-05-09
第7版()
专栏：

　　工具改革
　　农业部工具改革办公室
    生产工具是生产力发展的主要标志，工具改革是发展生产的一项根本措施。农业增产八字宪法每一条的贯彻实施，都离不开工具改革。不仅如此，就连制造工具的工具如不改革，也不能保证新工具的迅速制造。1958年由于产量指标的提高，农业技术措施的革新，劳动力需要量大大增加。如仍用旧式工具进行生产，就达不到大跃进的要求。因此，必须进行工具改革。
    1958年的工具改革运动取得了辉煌的成就
    1958年的工具改革运动，揭开了我国技术革命的序幕，取得了辉煌的成绩。全国改革、创造的新工具上万种，推广了三亿五千余万件；制造滚珠轴承二千多万套，安装各种运转工具四千四百多万件。这些新工具的推广使用，不仅大大鼓舞了士气，而且有力地推动了农业生产大跃进。
    克服了劳动力不足的困难
    1958年的工具改革，解决了劳动力不足的一半左右。许多地方因进行工具改革，提高了工效，节省了劳动力。江苏泰兴县制造的绳索牵引机，四至五人操作，耕深一尺至一尺五寸，每天每部一般能耕二亩至二亩五分，再多的还能耕到四亩以上。比用畜力拉犁提高工效五至七倍。全县有这种牵引机一万五千部；深耕土地一百三十八万亩，占总耕地面积的72.5％，有力地解决了深耕中劳力不足的困难。黑龙江省双城县兰梭人民公社试制成功的畜力绳索牵引机，用两匹马作动力，耕地效率等于用八匹马直接拉犁的耕地效率。安徽省大量推广了改良工具，劳动效率大大提高。仅水利施工一项，就节省了二十五亿八千万个工日。湖南省衡阳地区在1958年春季，随着农业生产的大跃进，带来了一个新矛盾，一方面是农业生产的跃进计划，需要大量的劳动力，而另一方面是现有的劳动力和落后的工具，却远远不能满足这个要求。地委根据这种情况提出了大搞工具改革的措施。全区创造仿制的工具有五百一十多种，推广三百七十多种，四百一十二万多件。这些工具一般提高工效一、两倍，有的甚至几十倍，大大降低了劳动强度，基本上解决了劳动力不足的困难。据去年10月份统计，全区劳动力赤字为二百一十三万多个，单工具改革就解决了一百八十九万多个。占劳动力赤字的88.7％。
    保证了农业新技术的贯彻
    通过工具改革，保证了各项农业增产新技术的贯彻。如适应深耕要求，全国改制推广了深耕犁一千六百多万件，耕地深度一般达一尺左右。适应大量积肥施肥的要求，全国改制推广了积肥、施肥和运肥工具六千三百多万件。适应水利要求，改制推广了水利工具三千七百多万件。适应选种要求，改制推广了选种工具三十多万件。适应密植要求，改制推广了播种机、密植耧四百八十多万件，收获工具一百八十多万件。适应植物保护的要求，改制推广了喷雾、喷粉工具一百二十多万件。适应田间管理的要求，改制推广了中耕锄草工具三千七百多万件。特别在深耕、密植两方面的技术革新，使耕地、播种两种工具大大改变了原来的结构和性能，耕深由原来的三寸左右，一般加深到一尺左右。不仅原来的旧式犁达不到这个要求，就连新式农具中的双轮双铧犁、双轮单铧犁，也达不到这个要求。因此，就出现了由旧式犁改进的深耕犁，双轮双铧犁和双轮单铧犁改制的深耕犁，并创造了绞关绳索牵引深耕犁，电力、机力绳索牵引深耕犁，机引综合深耕犁等等。小麦播种由原来的窄幅改为窄行宽幅，这也是原有播种机具办不到的。因此，就出现了由旧式耧改进的密植耧，新式畜力播种机改装的新型播种机。
    提高了劳动生产率
    工具改革保证完成了各项增产措施，提高了产量，提高了劳动生产率。河南长葛县创造改良的深耕积肥、施肥、中耕、播种等工具六十三万多件，都比旧式工具提高了工效，节省工日约六千万个。工具改革，不但保证了农业生产的大跃进，而且还调动了六万多个男女整劳力支援了城市工业和钢铁生产，抽出了两万个劳力支援了鲁山水库的修建工作。
    湖南省深耕工具改革后，提高工效十倍左右。未改前用旧工具挖地，每天挖二分至三分，改革后用新工具耕地，每天耕三亩至三亩半。运输工具车子化后，提高工效四至五倍，未改前，用人挑每次八十斤，改革后用车子每次四百斤。用索道运输，比人挑提高几十倍。收割工具改革后，提高工效四至五倍，未改前用镰割每人每天由一亩至二亩，用快速割禾器每人每天割五亩至七亩。水利施工工具改革后，土方从二至五方，提高到十方，比用旧工具提高二至五倍。农副业加工工具改革后提高工效十九倍。红薯切片，人工切每天四百斤，切片机切每天八千斤。安徽阜阳专区去年夏收夏种中每个劳动力应负担的劳动日由以前的二十二个增加到六十六个。由于制造成功了滚珠轴承，并大量推广了安装上滚珠轴承的改良工具，提高劳动生产率两倍以上，完成夏收夏种任务，每个劳动力只用了二十个工。
    在农业生产大跃进中，很多事实证明，单位面积产量越高，单位产品用工越少，每个工日产量越多。这是因为在单位时间内做出了更多的工作量，达到了新技术的要求。而这一切都是广泛开展群众性的工具改革运动；利用杠杆、曲柄、滚珠、滑轮、惯性等装置，减轻了劳动强度；利用齿轮、皮带轮、滑轮系等装置，加快了作业速度；利用水力、风力、气力（沼气、自然气）、火力和电力来代替人力所得到的结果。
    工具改革为我国农业机械化、电气化创造了良好的开端
    工具改革是机械化电气化的基础，通过工具改革实现半机械化、机械化、电气化，可以在技术上多、快、好、省地改造我国农业。它是保证农业生产大跃进的根本性措施之一，决不是像有些人们认为的是一项无关紧要的措施。从我国当前钢铁生产量跃进速度看，实行较大规模的农业机械化电气化，不久就会到来。但在钢铁生产达到一定水平之前，就必须大搞工具改革，大搞自然动力，实现农业的半机械化。然后逐步实现农业机械化、电气化。这是我国的具体条件决定的。那些认为工具改革解决不了多大问题，坐等机械化的看法和做法都是错误的。我国的农业机械必须适应我国不同地区、不同自然条件、不同作物的需要，并符合农业生产跃进和“八字宪法”的要求。我们要学习外国的农业机具的研究和创制经验，这是肯定的。但不能全靠引进外国的农业机具或单纯抄用人家的图纸。就农业机具的选型来说，我国的平原和山区不一样；水田和旱地不一样；这种作物和那种作物不一样；同一种作物，这项作业和那项作业不一样；同一种作物同一项作业，这个地区和那个地区又不一样；同一种作物同一项作业同一个地区，这个季节和那个季节也不一样。而且在农业生产大跃进中，各地农民对各种作物都创造出空前的高额产量，也创造出深耕、施肥、灌溉、选种、密植、植物保护和田间管理的一套崭新的技术措施。这一切都给农业工具改革工作提出一系列的新问题。因此，我们必须根据不同条件来研究创制适合我国具体情况的农业机具。
    我国的工具改革运动，不仅是当前农业生产的迫切需要，而且在改革和提高土生土长的旧式农具的同时，也为农业机械化创造出适合不同地区的农业机具的品种和型号。这给即将到来的农业机械化的选样定型奠定良好的基础。在工具改革运动中，各地创造和改良的上千上万多种多样的工具，实际上就是我国农业机械选择机具型号的宝库和泉源。在已经改革的农具中，有很多适合八字宪法要求的为过去所没有的好农具。如为了达到深耕目的，创造的电力、机力绳索牵引机；机引综合深耕犁、各种绞关深耕犁、各种畜力深耕犁；为了大量施肥创造的积肥、制肥、施肥工具和营养钵制造机；为了适时灌溉创造的内燃水泵、水轮泵；为了加速水稻插秧创造的各种插秧机；为了玉米密植创造的玉米播种器等等，都为农业机械化提供了新的型号。特别是绳索牵引机的大量推广，既可综合利用水、风、火、气、机、电各种能源作动力，又可综合利用于耕地、插秧、加工和水利施工等各项作业，为实现农业机械化电气化找到了一条捷径。今后在农业机械化的进程中，采取拖拉机和绳索牵引机同时并举的方针，就将加速实现我国的农业机械化电气化。
    在工具改革中，还初步利用了水、风、沼、潮、机、电各种动力能源。河北静海、福建永春等地的小型水力站和水电站，湖北潜江、浙江嘉兴等地的风动机和风力水车、上海等地的利用天然气和海潮发电；安徽阜阳、河北威县、广东鹤山等地对沼气的广泛利用，都为以后的农业机械化电气化作了准备。
    有了改革的工具和自然动力的初步利用，农具的制造和使用就可以逐步由木制到铁制，由小型到大型，由土到洋，由低级到高级，由人力畜力到机力、电力。
    充分发动群众，紧密结合生产
    1958年的经验证明，工具改革必须采取群众路线的方法，紧密结合生产，充分发挥广大群众的智力、人力和物力。广大农民、工人、手工业者和农村基层干部，是工具改革的主力军。许多地区全民卷入了工具改革运动。这样做的好处是可以就地取材，在很短期间，即可创造出适合于当前生产迫切需要的工具，并且能够大量推广，立即在生产中发挥省工、省力的作用。江苏扬州专区在推广绳索牵引机运动中，创造了竹篦、蒲草、稻草等绳索代用品；利用水车制成卧式绞关，克服了材料不足的困难。湖南平江县瓮江乡通过全民大辩论，批判了右倾保守思想，几天之内全乡共献计四千多条，乡、社都成立了专管机构，采取干部、群众、技术员、工人四结合的办法，建立了农具厂，在半个月内创造、推广了十五种新工具。湖南衡阳专区，组织巡回表演队，推广快速割禾器，通过新旧农具的比武，传授使用技术，七天中在零陵等六个县就推广了六万多件。农业部曾组织该专区的快速割禾器能手到广东、广西、浙江、安徽等省区巡回表演，在十几天内就推广了这种农具一百多万件。
    工具改革促进了社办工业的发展，也为工具改革建立了基地和专业队伍。1958年县、社实行了铁、木工匠集中归队，专业分工以及采取了小厂并大厂，铁木工厂相联合的办法，建立了不少农具制造修配厂。全国共建农具制造厂四万七千九百六十三所，农具修配厂四万三千四百六十二所。共有职工一百八十六万余人，专用有土、洋机床七万九千三百二十五台。四川乐至县开展了“三五”运动，即采用以土为主，土洋结合的办法，使每个公社都装备有车、钻、铣、冲、刨等五种机床，每个生产队都有丝锥、扳牙、老虎钳、钢锉、台钻等五种工具；利用水、火、风、气、畜等五种动力，以自力更生地装备县、社机械工业，建立起区、社、队农具修配制造网。这是工具改革进一步开展的基地。因此，大搞工具改革的群众运动，必须与加强基本建设，建立专业队伍相结合。
    解放思想，破除迷信，创造适应我国需要的新农具
    在工具改革运动中，必须解放思想，破除迷信，打破对农业机械化的一些神秘观点和教条主义，发扬劳动人民敢想敢说敢于创造的共产主义风格。工具改革运动以前，只迷信洋办法，而不相信自己的思想相当普遍。工具改革以后，出现了大批的活鲁班、土专家，改良了农具上万种。全国农具展览会上展出的四千多种农具中有60％以上是工人、农民创造的。其中的九百五十余种已制成活页图纸向各地推荐。河北省在技术革命现场会议上，二百九十八项创造发明中，创造者70％是工人（包括手工业工人），24％是农民，6％是干部和教员。从文化程度上看，文盲占12％，小学程度占82％，中学程度占5％，大学程度仅占1％。
    滚珠轴承是一切机械的灵魂。1958年6、7月间广泛开展的以滚珠轴承为中心的工具改革运动，全国各县、社用土法生产滚珠轴承的单位达四十余万处。不少地区，短期内就实现了滚珠轴承化。
    水稻插秧机是世界上还没有的机具。有些机械专家认为插秧不能机械化，机械化解决不了插秧问题。但经过广大农民研究创造，却创造了插秧机九百多种。有五、六种已基本定型，大量推广。古人和外国人办不到的现在我们的工人和农民办到了。一些科学研究机关的技术人员在运动中联系群众结合生产，摆脱书本教条，也创造性地把绳索牵引机、内燃水泵等提高到一个新的水平。
    经验证明，科学技术和工具的创造发明，必须先土法上马，土洋结合，结合生产，干什么、改什么，边发明、边鉴定、边推广、边改进、边普及、边提高。改旧创新并举，质与量并重。既注意工具的改革，又要注意各种动力能源的发掘利用，达到不断改革，全面改革。建立和健全科学试验和鉴定机构。统一组织使用科学力量。大抓试验研究和选样定型工作，试验研究要贯彻研究、教学、生产相结合的方针。选型要贯彻评选、改进、创造的路线，要适合农业八字宪法的要求，要工效高、成本低、制造简单、经久耐用，由中央、省、县三级鉴定。对已改革的工具逐项逐件进行鉴定，选定型号。对使用效果很好的工具，应即大量制造推广使用。对效果不大或者尚未改好的工具，应继续研究改进。对生产迫切需要而当前还没有的工具，应积极进行研究，在短期内创造出来。
    培训干部、师资和各种工具的操作手
    工具改革既要广泛发动群众，进行全面改革，又要大量培训干部、师资和各种工具的操作手。需要在西北、西南、华中、华北等几个协作区各设一个机械化学院，并分别在现在设有农业机械系的农业院、校，设立短期干部训练班。大力培训县级以上干部，选送农业机械专科以上学校毕业，并有几年工作经验的技术人员，到机械化院校去深造，培养成机械化师资和研究人员。要大量训练各种工具的操作手。对改良农具和新式农具的技术训练要在某项农事季节之前，集中训练师资，然后分片分批地训练足够的操作手，传授使用技术。
    工具改革还只是农业技术革命的萌芽。由工具改革到半机械化和机械化电气化，都要不断改进，不断提高。刘少奇同志说：“技术革新运动，像一部车子，已经开动了，永远不会停止，一天不停，一万年不停。”正是当前我国工具改革不断发展不断前进这一历史事实最好的写照。
