Title: The People's Commune System Opens Up Broad Prospects for the High-Speed Development of Animal Husbandry
Author: Kui Bi, Wang Zaitian
Date: 1959-05-02
Page: 6

Comrades Chairman, fellow representatives:

    We fully endorse Premier Zhou's report on the work of the government, as well as the reports by Vice Premiers Li Fuchun and Li Xiannian, and Vice Chairman Peng Zhen.

    Now, we will present the following speech on the communization of pastoral areas in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.

    For more than a decade since liberation, the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region has consistently implemented a series of social and production policies stipulated by the Party Central Committee, Chairman Mao, and the Central People's Government to protect and develop animal husbandry, resulting in a significant increase in various livestock. From 1949 to 1958, over a period of nine years, the number of livestock increased from 9.4 million to 24.47 million (excluding pigs), an increase of 1.6 times, with an annual increase of 11 percent. In order to continuously meet the state's needs for livestock, hides, dairy products, and other animal products, and to continuously improve the income and living standards of herdsmen, it is necessary to develop animal husbandry at high speed. This is the urgent demand and glorious task of the people of all ethnic groups in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region.

    To develop animal husbandry at high speed, it is necessary to thoroughly transform the scattered and backward animal husbandry into collective and advanced animal husbandry. Since 1956, on the basis of previous work, the pastoral areas of Inner Mongolia have launched rectification, anti-rightist, and anti-local nationalism struggles, as well as a general line propaganda and education movement. The struggle between the two roads, two lines, and two styles was universally and deeply carried out among the broad masses of cadres and people, enabling the broad masses of cadres and people to distinguish between the major issues of right and wrong between socialism and capitalism, and strengthening their determination and confidence in taking the socialist road. Therefore, in September and October 1958, on the basis of past elementary cooperativization, and after a period of three months, by the end of December 1958, the entire pastoral area had basically achieved the people's commune system. The original more than two thousand pastoral production cooperatives were merged into 152 people's communes, with more than 90 percent of the total number of pastoral households joining the communes, and more than 80 percent of the total number of livestock joining the communes. The reason why the people's commune system in the pastoral areas of Inner Mongolia could be realized so quickly is the result of the rapid development of the socialist revolution in politics and ideology and socialist economic construction in our motherland and autonomous region. It is a brilliant victory for the great ethnic policies of the Party Central Committee, Chairman Mao, and the Central People's Government. The realization of the commune system in pastoral areas not only opened up broad prospects for the high-speed development of animal husbandry in pastoral areas, but also has far-reaching significance for accelerating the various socialist construction undertakings in pastoral areas.

    **Adopted a gradual advance approach and various transitional measures based on specific circumstances**

    The nature of the people's communes in pastoral areas is basically the same as that of the people's communes in rural areas, but some conditions in pastoral areas are different from those in agricultural areas. In the people's commune movement in pastoral areas, we formulated and implemented the following guidelines and policies based on the characteristics of pastoral areas.

    The people's communes in pastoral areas were established on the basis of elementary cooperativization, which is a leap in the transformation of ownership in pastoral areas. The main means of production in pastoral areas is livestock, which is both a means of production and a means of livelihood, and is different from land. There are significant differences in the ownership of livestock among pastoral laborers. At present, these differences must be acknowledged. These circumstances tell us that the realization of ownership by the people's communes in pastoral areas must go through two transitions: one is the transition from incomplete collective ownership to complete collective ownership; and the other is the transition from the original production team ownership and partial commune ownership of elementary pastoral production cooperatives to basically unitary commune ownership. The realization of these two transitions is the process of gradually raising the income level of pastoral households and production teams with relatively poor income to the income level of pastoral households and production teams with higher income; it is the process of gradually forming relatively concentrated settlements in pastoral areas, and it is also the process of gradually modernizing the technical level and material equipment of animal husbandry production in pastoral areas. It seems that the time required for this process will be longer than that in agricultural areas. In view of these circumstances, we have adopted a gradual advance approach and various transitional measures in handling economic issues in the people's commune movement. These methods can be summarized into three types: First, livestock is priced or scored to join the commune, and profits are distributed proportionally; second, livestock is priced to join the commune, and fixed interest is paid. In addition to paying interest, distribution is based on labor; third, livestock is priced to join the commune, and repayment is made in installments. A more lenient approach was adopted for the private livestock of commune members. All livestock belonging to the means of livelihood was left to the commune members. Riding horses and dairy cows are kept by households as needed. On the principle of voluntary participation by commune members, dairy cows can also be distributed to milking households to solve the milk food problem of commune members. Edible sheep are kept as needed, and some ewes can also be kept for breeding. The number of privately kept livestock is determined by the commune in consultation with the masses, taking into account local conditions and customs. Draft animals needed by commune members, such as cattle and horses for pulling water and manure, are also allowed to be kept privately. Livestock used by herdsmen for sacrifices and beloved livestock are also allowed to be kept privately. The private livestock of commune members is managed uniformly by the production team, and the livestock owner pays a herding fee. The privately kept livestock can be disposed of by the owner. The offspring of the livestock belong to the owner, and when the number of offspring increases significantly, the commune can purchase them.

    Regarding the distribution system of the people's communes in pastoral areas, we have determined the following principles: First, the net increase rate of livestock should be stabilized at 15 percent or slightly higher, and the rest should be used as total income to pay taxes, public accumulation, and commune member consumption; second, the pastoral tax should remain stable at the 1958 level; third, the portion distributed to commune members should be greater than the total of taxes, public accumulation funds, public welfare funds, production costs, and management fees, to ensure that commune members' income gradually increases; fourth, the portion distributed to commune members should be distributed based on work points, according to labor days.

    Due to the scattered residences and inconvenient transportation in pastoral areas, collective welfare undertakings such as canteens, nurseries, and homes for the elderly are generally not held on a large scale in pastoral areas at present. If it is really necessary, the masses are willing, and there are conditions for holding them, they can be held. In order to meet the requirements of the masses for their children to attend school, communes and production teams with conditions should do their best to run elementary schools. Communes and production teams with conditions for running health care undertakings should do their best to run them.

    Regarding the socialist transformation of the economy of the herdsmen and livestock owners, we implemented a peaceful transformation and redemption policy during the period of cooperativization, and established a number of joint state-private livestock farms, paying a certain interest on the livestock of the herdsmen and livestock owners. In the communization process, we continued to implement this policy, adopting the method of joint state-private livestock farms joining nearby state-owned livestock farms or gradually transitioning to state-owned livestock farms.

    In the commune movement, we continued to adhere to the established policy of freedom of religious belief of the Party and the People's Government. The livestock and other means of production of the temple warehouses were incorporated into the people's communes in the location of the temple warehouse by means of fixed interest. Livestock that has already joined the cooperatives or leased the "Suruk" [Note: Mongolian, which is the livestock leased to herdsmen without livestock or with few livestock] is, in principle, incorporated into the commune on the spot and treated in the same way as the livestock of the herdsmen and livestock owners. After years of education by the Party and the People's Government, the vast majority of lamas have improved their ideological understanding to varying degrees. More than 90 percent of the lamas have participated in production labor, and most of them are willing to take the road of the people's commune. We have given active support to this progress. The livelihood problems of those elderly lamas who have lost their ability to work and who rely solely on the temple warehouse for their livelihood are taken care of by the government or the commune in accordance with the principle of "Five Guarantees".

    The above-mentioned principles, policies, and methods of communization, which are based on the actual situation in the current pastoral areas, have proven to be correct in practice, and have therefore been warmly supported by the broad masses of people in the pastoral areas.

    **The great leap forward in production and construction in the pastoral areas in 1958 was mutually promoting and mutually caused by the communization**

    The great leap forward in production and construction in the pastoral areas in 1958 was mutually promoting and mutually caused by the people's commune movement in the pastoral areas. After the realization of the people's commune system in the pastoral areas, it can unify the use of manpower, material resources, and funds on a larger scale, and more rationally plan and utilize pastures, and carry out large-scale basic construction in the pastoral areas. Therefore, it has changed the past single-operation and small-scale animal husbandry production situation, and a new situation of industry, animal husbandry, and agriculture developing simultaneously, and a combination of animal husbandry, agriculture, forestry, sideline, and fishery has emerged, which has opened up broad prospects for the high-speed development of animal husbandry production in the pastoral areas. Judging from the development of production in the pastoral areas in the past few months from the second half of last year to the present, the people's communes in the pastoral areas have shown great superiority not only in developing water conservancy, solving feed and forage problems, improving reproduction and survival rates, improving breeds, improving feeding management, preventing and controlling livestock diseases, and preventing various disasters, building sheds and pens, and establishing stables, as well as the eight basic measures for increasing and protecting livestock, which were often referred to in the past as water, grass, breeding, improvement, management, prevention, housing, and labor, but also in developing various small industries, developing various sideline productions, building settlements, and carrying out technical and cultural revolutions. Unprecedented great achievements have also been made in these areas. This can be illustrated by the following figures. In the six months from September last year to the end of March this year, more than 6,400 wells were dug in the pastoral areas (some of which were machine-drilled wells), which is equivalent to 80 percent of the total number of wells dug in the five and a half years from 1953 to the first half of 1958. In 1958, 67 new canals were opened, which is equivalent to eight times the number of canals opened in the past four years. Irrigated feed bases totaled 260,000 mu, more than seven times that of 1957. The amount of grass cut increased by more than double that of 1957. The livestock reproduction rate reached 85 percent for large livestock and 95 percent for small livestock, and the survival rate reached over 92 percent. Now, 650,000 ewes have been mated for the second time. Compared with the same period in 1957, the number of lambs produced has increased by more than one million. An unprecedented bumper harvest of winter lambs and spring lambs has appeared in the history of the development of animal husbandry production in the pastoral areas of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. It is particularly worth mentioning that a flock of Xinjiang fine-wool sheep in the Aobaotu Brigade of the Bayan Xile People's Commune in Xilin Gol League, 36 ewes produced 73 lambs, all of which survived. The reproduction rate reached 202 percent, and the survival rate reached 100 percent. Last year, the Baiyinhua Ranch in Ongniud Banner of Zhaowuda League injected pregnant mare serum into 58 ewes. This winter and spring, 28 of these ewes gave birth to twins, 8 gave birth to triplets, 3 gave birth to quadruplets, and 1 gave birth to quintuplets. Only 18 gave birth to single lambs, and a total of 115 lambs were born, with a survival rate of 99 percent. Since October last year, 2.8 million sheep have been improved, with an average conception rate of 93 percent, more than ten times the total number of sheep improved in the past seven years. More than 269,000 sheds and pens have been built, which is equivalent to 34 percent of the total number of sheds and pens built in the past few years. In terms of improving feeding management, the "eight fixings" work of fixing leaders, fixing pastures, fixing livestock groups, fixing special personnel, fixing feed, fixing forage, fixing tools, and fixing livestock fatness has been universally promoted. Small livestock and cattle groups have all been grazed with the groups, and about 80 percent of the horse and camel groups have basically been grazed with the groups. Great achievements have also been made in preventing and controlling livestock diseases and preventing various disasters. The number of times of livestock disease prevention and control in 1958 increased by three times compared with 1957, and the number of livestock deaths due to diseases in 1958 decreased by about 70 percent compared with 1957. At the same time, thousands of small factories have been established; various sideline productions have been developed; 1,300 mowing and sowing machines have been purchased; the construction of settlements has also been greatly developed; some settlements have also established hydropower stations; and the development of technical and cultural revolutions has been powerfully promoted. This fully demonstrates the great vitality of the people's commune in promoting the high-speed development of animal husbandry and the rapid development of various socialist constructions in pastoral areas. As Premier Zhou said in his government work report, the pastoral areas of Inner Mongolia "have now embarked on the bright road of socialism. They are truly developing rapidly."

    In the process of realizing the people's commune system in pastoral areas, some deviations have also occurred. The main ones are that the transformation of ownership was carried out a little too quickly; the private livestock of herdsmen was restricted a little too tightly in some places; and the people's livelihood and welfare were covered too broadly. The occurrence of these deviations is partly due to our lack of experience, and partly due to our insufficient, specific, and detailed guidance on the movement. We are rectifying and building the people's communes in pastoral areas in accordance with the instructions of the Party Central Committee, Chairman Mao, and the Central People's Government, and resolutely correcting these deviations in order to give greater, better, and more comprehensive play to the great superiority of the people's communes in pastoral areas, to realize the target of a 15 percent net increase in livestock in 1959, to welcome the tenth anniversary of the founding of our great motherland, and to lay a good foundation for high-speed development next year!

    **The great superiority displayed by the people's communes in the pastoral areas of Inner Mongolia shows that any nation that wants to progress and develop must carry out socialist reforms**

    The great superiority displayed in all aspects of the pastoral areas of Inner Mongolia after the realization of the people's commune system powerfully shows that no matter what nation it is, no matter what stage of historical development it is currently in, it must carry out social reforms in order to achieve development and progress. It is only that there are differences in time, steps, and methods based on the specific circumstances of the local area at that time. The original local government of Tibet and the upper-level reactionary clique, which attempted to preserve the backward and dark serf system, have consistently opposed social reforms. For this reason, they have even colluded with imperialism and foreign reactionaries to split the motherland. This is of course fundamentally contrary to the will of the people of the whole country, especially the broad masses of the people of Tibet, and contrary to the trend of the historical development of the Tibetan nation. Therefore, they are bound to degenerate into shameful traitors and national scum who betray the motherland and the Tibetan people, and will be spurned by the people of all ethnic groups in the country, especially the Tibetan people. Thoroughly eliminating this small handful of bandits who split the motherland, who are supported and utilized by imperialism and foreign reactionaries, is the unanimous demand of the people of all ethnic groups in our country, and is entirely China's internal affair, which does not allow any foreigner to interfere. However, just when the people of all ethnic groups in our country were unanimously condemning the bandits and suppressing the rebellion, some expansionist elements in India, our neighboring country, dared to openly support the bandits, viciously attack our country, and even madly insulted the portrait of Chairman Mao, the great leader of the people of all ethnic groups in our country. This is a serious provocation to the 600 million people of our country, and this is absolutely intolerable. We, on behalf of the people of all ethnic groups in the Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, solemnly warn the British imperialists and Indian expansionists: keep your minds cool, our country's sovereignty is inviolable, our country's internal affairs are inviolable, and our country's unity is inviolable. No reactionary force can stop the Chinese people of all ethnic groups from advancing victoriously along the bright road of socialism.



<hr /> 

Original: 


### 人民公社制度为畜牧业的  高速度发展开辟了广阔前途

1959-05-02
第6版()
专栏：

    人民公社制度为畜牧业的
    高速度发展开辟了广阔前途
    奎璧、王再天代表谈内蒙古自治区牧区公社化的情况主席、各位代表：
    我们完全拥护周总理所作的政府工作报告，完全拥护李富春、李先念副总理和彭真副委员长所作的报告。
    现在我们就内蒙古自治区牧区公社化问题作以下发言。
    内蒙古自治区自解放以后的十多年来，一直坚持执行了党中央、毛主席和中央人民政府规定的一系列保护和发展畜牧业的社会政策和生产政策，使各种牲畜都有了很大的增长。从一九四九年到一九五八年的九年时间里，由九百四十万头增加到二千四百四十七万头（不包括猪），增加了一点六倍，每年递增百分之十一。为了不断满足国家对牲畜、皮毛、乳品及其他畜产品的需要，不断提高牧民的收入和生活水平，还必须高速度地发展畜牧业，这是内蒙古自治区各民族人民的迫切要求和光荣任务。
    要想高速度地发展畜牧业，就必须彻底改造分散的、落后的畜牧业为集体的、先进的畜牧业。从一九五六年以来，内蒙古牧区在过去各项工作的基础上，展开了整风、反右派和反地方民族主义的斗争及总路线宣传教育运动，在广大干部和人民群众中普遍深入地开展了两条道路、两条路线和两种作风的斗争，使广大干部和群众分清了社会主义与资本主义的大是大非，坚定了走社会主义道路的决心和信心，因而一九五八年九、十月间，在过去初级合作化的基础上，经过三个来月的时间，到一九五八年十二月底，整个牧区就已经基本上实现了人民公社化，由原来的两千多个牧业生产合作社建成一百五十二个人民公社，入社牧户占到总牧户的百分之九十以上，入社的牲畜占总牲畜头数的百分之八十以上。内蒙古牧区人民公社化所以能够这样快地实现，是我们祖国和自治区政治思想上的社会主义革命和社会主义经济建设迅速发展的结果，是党中央、毛主席和中央人民政府伟大的民族政策的辉煌胜利。牧区公社化的实现，不仅为牧区畜牧业的高速度发展开辟了广阔的前途，而且对加速牧区的各项社会主义建设事业，也具有极其深远的意义。
    根据具体情况，采取了逐步前进方针和多种过渡办法
    牧区人民公社的性质基本上是和农村人民公社的性质相同的，但是牧区有些情况是同农区有所不同的。我们在牧区人民公社化运动中，根据牧区的特点出发，制定和执行了以下一些方针和政策。
    牧区人民公社是在初级合作化的基础上建立的，这是牧区所有制变革上的一个跃进。牧区的主要生产资料是牲畜，它既是生产资料又是生活资料，和土地是不同的。牧区劳动牧民对牲畜的占有状况存在着较大的差别，目前必须承认这种差别。这些情况告诉我们，牧区人民公社所有制的实现必须经过两个过渡：一个是由不完全的集体所有制到完全的集体所有制的过渡；一个是由原来初级牧业生产合作社的生产队所有制和部分的公社所有制到基本上单一的公社所有制的过渡。实现这两个过渡，就是把目前收入较差的牧户和生产队的收入水平逐步提高到收入较高的牧户和生产队的收入水平的过程；就是牧区比较集中的定居点逐步形成的过程，也就是牧区畜牧业生产的技术水平和物质装备逐步现代化的过程。这个过程所需要的时间，看来要比农区长一些。鉴于这些情况，我们在人民公社化运动中，对经济问题的处理就采取了逐步前进的方针和多种的过渡办法。这些办法归纳起来有三种：一是牲畜作价或评分入社，按比例分益；二是牲畜作价入社，付给固定利息，除了付息以外，实行按劳分配；三是牲畜作价入社，分期偿还。对社员的自留畜采取了较宽的办法，凡属于生活资料的牲畜都留给社员。乘马、奶牛根据需要按户自留，在社员自愿的原则下，也可以把奶牛分给挤奶户来解决社员的奶食问题。食用羊根据需要自留，也可以留一些母羊自行繁殖，自留数量由公社根据当地具体情况适当照顾群众习惯，和群众充分商量确定。社员需要的役畜，如拉水、拉粪的牛、马等，也允许自留。牧民祭祀用的牲畜和心爱的牲畜，也允许自留。社员自留畜由生产队统一经营，畜主出代牧费。自留畜允许畜主自己处理。繁殖的仔畜归本主所有，数量发展的很多时，公社可以收买。
    对牧区人民公社的分配制度，我们确定了以下几条原则：第一，把牲畜纯增率稳定在百分之十五或者稍多一点的水平，其余部分做为总收入，用以缴纳税金、公共积累和社员消费；第二，牧业税仍稳定在一九五八年的水平上；第三，分给社员的部分应该大于税金、公积金、公益金、生产费、管理费的总和，以保证社员收入逐步有所增加；第四，分给社员的部分，实行评工记分、按劳动日进行分配的办法。
    由于牧区居住分散，交通不便，在目前牧区一般不大量举办食堂、托儿所、敬老院等集体福利事业。如果确实有必要，群众自愿，又有条件举办的可以举办。为了满足群众子弟入学的要求，凡是有条件举办小学的公社和生产队，应尽力举办。有条件举办卫生保健事业的公社和生产队，应尽力举办。
    对牧主经济的社会主义改造，在合作化时期我们就实行了和平改造的赎买政策，办起了一批公私合营牧场，对牧主的牲畜付给一定的利息。在公社化中，我们仍然实行这一政策，采取了公私合营牧场加入附近国营牧场或者逐步过渡为国营牧场的办法。
    在公社化运动中，仍然继续坚持执行党和人民政府既定的宗教信仰自由政策。对庙仓的牲畜及其它生产资料，采取定息办法加入该庙仓所在地的人民公社。已经加入合作社或放“苏鲁克”（注：蒙语，就是租放给无畜或畜少的牧民的畜群）的牲畜，原则上全部就地纳入公社，同牧主的牲畜作同样处理。绝大多数的喇嘛经过多年来党和人民政府的教育，思想认识程度不同地有了提高，有百分之九十以上的喇嘛参加了生产劳动，他们大都愿意走人民公社的道路，我们对这种进步给予了积极的支持。对那些过去仅仅依靠庙仓生活的失去劳动能力的老年喇嘛的生活问题，按照“五保”原则，由政府或公社包起来。
    上述从当前牧区实际情况出发的公社化的方针、政策和办法，实践证明是正确的，因而得到了牧区广大人民群众的热诚拥护。
    一九五八年牧区生产建设大跃进，是和公社化互相促进、互为因果的
    一九五八年牧区生产建设的大跃进，是和牧区公社化运动相互促进，互为因果的。牧区实现人民公社化以后，由于可以在更大范围内统一运用人力、物力和资金，更合理地规划和利用牧场，大规模地进行牧区各项基本建设，因而改变了过去那种单一经营的、小规模的畜牧业生产状况，出现了工牧农并举的、牧农林副渔相结合的、多种经营的新形势，这就为牧区畜牧业生产的高速度发展开辟了广阔的前途。从去年下半年到现在几个月来牧区生产发展的情况看，牧区人民公社不仅在发展水利、解决饲草饲料、提高繁殖率和成活率、改良品种、改善饲养管理、防治牲畜疫病和防止各种灾害、盖棚搭圈建立厩舍以及工具改革等方面，也就是过去常说的发展畜牧业生产的水、草、繁、改、管、防、舍、工八项增畜保畜的基本措施方面，显示出了巨大的优越性，而且在发展各种小型工业，开展各种副业生产，建设定居点以及大搞技术革命和文化革命等方面，也取得了空前巨大的成绩。这可以拿以下数字来加以说明。从去年九月到今年三月底的半年多时间里，牧区打井六千四百多眼（其中有一部分是机器凿井），相当于一九五三年到一九五八年上半年五年半打井总数的百分之八十。一九五八年新开渠道六十七处，相当于过去四年所开渠道的八倍。灌溉饲料基地二十六万亩，超过一九五七年的七倍。打草比一九五七年增加了一倍以上。牲畜繁殖率大畜达到百分之八十五，小畜达到百分之九十五，成活率达到百分之九十二以上。现在已经有六十五万只母羊配了二茬，同一九五七年同期相比较，产羔增加了一百多万只，在内蒙古自治区牧区畜牧业生产发展史上出现了空前的冬羔、春羔大丰收。特别值得提出的是锡林郭勒盟巴彦锡勒人民公社敖包图大队的一群新疆细毛羊，有三十六只母羊产羔七十三只，全部成活，繁殖率达到百分之二百零二，成活率达到百分之百。昭乌达盟翁牛特旗白音花牧场去年给五十八只母羊注射了怀胎马血清，去冬今春这些母羊生双羔的有二十八只，生三羔的八只，生四羔的三只，生五羔的一只，只有十八只生单羔，共生了一百一十五只羊羔，成活率达到百分之九十九。从去年十月份以来改良绵羊二百八十万只，平均受胎率达到百分之九十三，超过过去七年来改良绵羊总数的十倍以上。盖棚搭圈二十六万九千多座，相当于过去几年来盖棚搭圈总数的百分之三十四。在改善饲养管理方面，普遍推行了定领导、定草场、定畜群、定专人、定饲料、定饲草、定工具、定畜膘等八定工作，小牲畜和牛群都作到了跟群放牧，百分之八十左右的马、驼群基本上作到了跟群放牧。在防治牲畜疫病和防止各种灾害方面，也取得了很大成绩。一九五八年对牲畜疫病防治的次数，比一九五七年增加了三倍，一九五八年因疫病死亡的牲畜比一九五七年减少百分之七十左右。与此同时，还建立了几千个小型工厂；开展了各种副业生产；购置了打、耧草机一千三百台；定居点的建设也有了很大发展；有些定居点还建立了水力发电站；并有力地推进了技术革命和文化革命的发展。这充分说明了人民公社促进畜牧业高速度发展和牧区各项社会主义建设迅速发展的巨大生命力。内蒙古牧区正如周总理在政府工作报告中所说的：“今天已经走上了社会主义的光明大道。他们真正是在一日千里地向前发展。”
    我们在实现牧区人民公社化的过程中，也曾经发生过一些偏向。主要是对所有制的改造方面走得过快了一点；对牧民的自留畜有些地方卡得紧了一点；对群众的生活福利包得过宽了一点。这些偏向的发生，一方面是由于我们缺乏经验，另一方面是由于我们对运动的指导不够深入、具体和细致所造成的。我们正在按照党中央、毛主席和中央人民政府的指示整顿和建设牧区人民公社，切实纠正这些偏向，以便更大、更好、更全面地发挥牧区人民公社的巨大优越性，实现一九五九年牲畜纯增百分之十五的指标，迎接我们伟大祖国建立的十周年，并为明年高速度发展打好基础！
    内蒙牧区人民公社显示的巨大优越性说明，任何民族要想进步与发展，必须进行社会主义改革
    内蒙古牧区在实现人民公社化以后各方面显示出来的巨大优越性，有力地说明不论那一个民族，也不论它当前处在什么历史发展阶段，要获得发展和进步，就必须进行社会改革，只是根据当地当时的具体情况，在时间、步骤、方式上有所不同罢了。企图保存落后的、黑暗的农奴制度的原西藏地方政府和上层反动集团，一贯反对社会改革，他们为此甚至不惜勾结帝国主义和外国反动派来分裂祖国，这当然是根本违背全国人民首先是西藏广大人民的意志，违反西藏民族历史发展的趋势的，因而他们必然堕落成为背叛祖国、背叛西藏人民的可耻的卖国贼和民族败类，遭到全国各族人民首先是西藏人民的唾弃。彻底肃清这一小撮被帝国主义和外国反动派所支持和利用的分裂祖国的叛匪，是我国各族人民的一致要求，完全是中国的内政，绝不容许任何外国人加以干涉。但是正当我国各族人民举国一致谴责叛匪，平定叛乱的时候，我国邻邦印度的一些扩张主义分子，竟敢公然支持叛匪，恶毒地攻击我国，甚至竟疯狂到污辱我国各族人民的伟大领袖毛主席像，这是对我国六亿人民的严重挑衅，这是绝不能容忍的。我们代表内蒙古自治区各族人民，严正警告英帝国主义和印度扩张主义分子：把你们的头脑要放冷静一些，我国的主权是不容侵犯的，我国的内政是不容干涉的，我们祖国的统一是不容破坏的。任何反动力量也阻挡不住中国各民族人民沿着社会主义的光明大道胜利前进。
